{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\ri4665\sb100\sa100\cf1\f0\fs18 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.\cf0\ul\fs20\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\cf2\ulnone\v <!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"><!-- saved from url=(0054)http://www.osgf.org/srd/srdbasiccharacterclassesi.html -->\cf0\v0  BASIC CHARACTER CLASSES I\cf2\par
\cf0\ul CLASSES & LEVELS\ulnone  \par
\i Class Descriptions \i0\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Alignment: A few classes restrict a character's possible alignments. An entry of "Any" means that characters of this class are not restricted in alignment. \par
\cf1{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hit Die: The type of Hit Die used by characters of the class determines the number of hit points gained per level. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Requirements:  The character must meet these requirements prior to adding this class.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class Table: This table details how a character improves as he or she gains experience levels. Class tables typically include the following: \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\ri4665\sb100\sa100\cf0 Level: The character's level in that class. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Base Attack Bonus: The character's base attack bonus and number of attacks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Fort Save: The base save bonus on Fortitude saving throws. The character's Constitution modifier also applies. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ref Save: The base save bonus on Reflex saving throws. The character's Dexterity modifier also applies. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Will Save: The base save bonus on Will saving throws. The character's Wisdom modifier also applies. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Special: Level-dependent class abilities, each explained in the "Class Features" sections that follow. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The number of skill points the character starts with at 1st level, the number of skill points gained each level thereafter, and the list of class skills. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class Features: Special characteristics of the class. When applicable, this section also mentions restrictions and disadvantages of the class. Class features include some or all of the following. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Which weapons and armor types the character is proficient with. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Other Features: Each class has certain unique capabilities. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ex-Members: If, for some reason, a character is forced to give up this class, these are the rules for what happens. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells per Day: How many spells of each spell level the character can cast each day. If the entry is "-" for a given level of spells, the character may not cast any spells of that level. If the entry is "0," the character may only cast spells of that level if he or she has bonus spells. If the entry is a number, the character may cast that many spells plus any bonus spells. Bonus spells for wizards are based on Intelligence. Bonus spells for clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers are based on Wisdom. Bonus spells for sorcerers and bards are based on Charisma. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A character can always choose to prepare a lower-level spell to fill a higher-level slot. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\ul ARCANE ARCHER\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any\line Hit Die: d8\line Requirements:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Race: Elf or half-elf. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Base Attack Bonus: +6. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Feats: Weapon Focus (any bow other than a crossbow), Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spellcasting: Ability to cast 1st-level arcane spells. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The arcane archer\rquote s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Craft (Int), Hide (Dex). Intuit Direction (Wis), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Ride (Dex), Spot (Wis), Use Rope (Dex), and Wilderness Lore (Wis).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: An arcane archer is proficient with all simple and martial weapons, light armor, medium armor, and shields.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: The Arcane Archer\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class\tab Attack\tab Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab Bonus\tab Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab +1\tab +2\tab +2\tab +0\tab Enchant arrow +1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab +2\tab +3\tab +3\tab +0\tab Imbue arrow\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab +3\tab +3\tab +3\tab +1\tab Enchant arrow +2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab +4\tab +4\tab +4\tab +1\tab Seeker arrow\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab +5\tab +4\tab +4\tab +1\tab Enchant arrow +3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab +6\tab +5\tab +5\tab +2\tab Phase arrow\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab +7\tab +5\tab +5\tab +2\tab Enchant arrow +4\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab +8\tab +6\tab +6\tab +2\tab Hail of arrows\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab +9\tab +6\tab +6\tab +3\tab Enchant arrow +5\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab +10\tab +7\tab +7\tab +3\tab Arrow of death\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Enchant Arrow: At 1st level, every nonmagical arrow an arcane archer nocks and lets fly becomes enchanted, gaining a +1 enhancement bonus. An archer\rquote s magic arrows only function for her. For every two levels of arcane archer the character advances past 1st level in the prestige class, the magic arrows she creates gain +1 greater potency.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Imbue Arrow: At 2nd level, an arcane archer gains this spell-like ability, allowing her to place an area spell upon an arrow. When the arrow is fired, the spell\rquote s area is centered upon where the arrow lands, even if the spell could normally be centered only on the caster. This ability allows the archer to use the bow\rquote s range rather than the spell\rquote s range. It takes a standard action to cast the spell and fire the arrow. The arrow must be fired in the round the spell is cast, or the spell is wasted.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Seeker Arrow: At 4th level, the arcane archer can launch an arrow once per day at a target known to her within range, and the arrow travels to the target, even around corners. Only an unavoidable obstacle or the end of the arrow\rquote s range prevents the arrow\rquote s flight. This ability negates cover and concealment modifiers, but otherwise the attack is rolled normally. This is a spell-like ability. (Shooting the arrow is part of the action.)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Phase Arrow: At 6th level, the arcane archer can launch an arrow once per day at a target known to her within range, and the arrow travels to the target in a straight path, passing through any nonmagical barrier or wall in its way. (A wall of force, a wall of fire, or the like stops the arrow.) This ability negates cover, concealment, and even armor modifiers, but otherwise the attack is rolled normally. This is a spell-like ability. (Shooting the arrow is part of the action.)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hail of Arrows: In lieu of her regular attacks, once per day the 8th-level arcane archer can fire an arrow at each and every target within range, to a maximum of one target for every arcane archer level she has earned. Each attack uses the archer\rquote s primary attack bonus, and each enemy may only be targeted by a single arrow. This is a spell-like ability.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Arrow of Death: At 10th level, the arcane archer can enchant an arrow of death that forces the target, if damaged by the arrow\rquote s attack, to make a Fortitude save (DC 20) or be slain immediately. It takes one day to create an arrow of death, and the arrow only functions for the arcane archer who created it. The enchantment lasts no longer than one year, and the archer can only have one such arrow in existence at a time.\par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}ASSASSIN\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hit Die: d6.\line Requirements:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Alignment: Any evil. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Move Silently: 8 ranks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hide: 8 ranks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Disguise: 4 ranks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Special: In addition, he must kill someone for no other reason than to join the assassins. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The assassin\rquote s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive skill), Diplomacy (Cha), Disable Device (Int), Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Forgery (Int), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Innuendo (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Intuit Direction (Wis), Jump (Str), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Open Lock (Dex), Pick Pocket (Dex), Read Lips (Int, exclusive skill), Search (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), Spot (Wis), Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex), Use Magic Device (Cha, exclusive skill), and Use Rope (Dex).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Assassins are proficient with the crossbow (hand, light, or heavy), dagger (any type), dart, rapier, sap, shortbow (normal and composite), and short sword. Assassins are proficient with light armor but not with shields.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: The Assassin\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class\tab Attack\tab Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab Bonus\tab Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab +0\tab +0\tab +2\tab +0\tab Sneak attack +1d6, death attack, poison use\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab +1\tab +0\tab +3\tab +0\tab +1 save vs. poison, uncanny dodge (Dex bonus to AC)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab +2\tab +1\tab +3\tab +1\tab Sneak attack +2d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab +3\tab +1\tab +4\tab +1\tab +2 save vs. poison\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab +3\tab +1\tab +4\tab +1\tab Sneak attack +3d6, uncanny dodge (can\rquote t be flanked)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab +4\tab +2\tab +5\tab +2\tab +3 save vs. poison\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab +5\tab +2\tab +5\tab +2 +3\tab Sneak attack +4d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab +6\tab +2\tab +6\tab +2\tab +4 save vs. poison\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab +6\tab +3\tab +6\tab +3\tab Sneak attack +5d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab +7\tab +3\tab +7\tab +3\tab +5 save vs. poison, uncanny dodge (+1 vs. traps)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab ---\tab Spells per Day\tab ---\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab 1st\tab 2nd\tab 3rd\tab 4th\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab 0\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab 1\tab 0\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab 1\tab 1\tab 0\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab 1\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\tab 0\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\tab 1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab 2\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab 2\tab 2\tab 2\tab 1\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Class Features\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Sneak Attack: Any time the assassin\rquote s target would be denied her Dexterity bonus to AC (whether she actually has a Dexterity bonus or not), the assassin\rquote s attack deals +1d6 points of damage. This extra damage increases by +1d6 points every other level (+2d6 at 3rd level, +3d6 at 5th level, and so on). Should the assassin score a critical hit with a sneak attack, this extra damage is not multiplied.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It takes precision and penetration to hit a vital spot, so ranged attacks can only count as sneak attacks if the target is 30 feet away or less.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}With a sap or an unarmed strike, the assassin can make a sneak attack that deals subdual damage instead of normal damage. He cannot use a weapon that deals normal damage to deal subdual damage in a sneak attack, not even with the usual -4 penalty, because he must make optimal use of his weapon in order to execute the sneak attack.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}An assassin can only sneak attack living creatures with discernible anatomies-undead, constructs, oozes, plants, and incorporeal creatures lack vital areas to attack. Additionally, any creature immune to critical hits is similarly immune to sneak attacks. Also, the assassin must also be able to see the target well enough to pick out a vital spot and must be able to reach a vital spot. The assassin cannot sneak attack while striking at a creature with concealment or by striking the limbs of a creature whose vitals are beyond reach.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}If an assassin gets a sneak attack bonus from another source (such as rogue levels), the bonuses to damage stack.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Death Attack: If the assassin studies his victim for 3 rounds and then makes a sneak attack with a melee weapon that successfully deals damage, the sneak attack has the additional effect of possibly either paralyzing or killing the target (assassin\rquote s choice). While studying the victim, the assassin can undertake other actions so long as his attention stays focused on the target and the target does not detect the assassin or recognize the assassin as an enemy. If the victim of such an attack fails her Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + the assassin\rquote s class level + the assassin\rquote s Intelligence modifier) against the kill effect, she dies. If the saving throw fails against the paralysis effect, the victim\rquote s mind and body become enervated, rendering her completely helpless and unable to act for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per level of the assassin. If the victim\rquote s saving throw succeeds, the attack is just a normal sneak attack. Once the assassin has completed the 3 rounds of study, he must make the death attack within the next 3 rounds. If a death attack is attempted and fails (the victim makes her save) or if the assassin does not launch the attack within 3 rounds of completing the study, 3 new rounds of study are required before he can attempt another death attack.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Poison Use: Assassins are trained in the use of poison and never risk accidentally poisoning themselves when applying poison to a blade.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells: Beginning at 1st level, an assassin gains the ability to cast a small number of arcane spells. To cast a spell, the assassin must have an Intelligence score of at least 10 + the spell\rquote s level, so an assassin with an Intelligence of 10 or lower cannot cast these spells. Assassin bonus spells are based on Intelligence, and saving throws against these spells have a DC of 10 + spell level + the assassin\rquote s Intelligence modifier (if any). When the assassin gets 0 spells of a given level, such as 0 1st-level spells at 1st level, the assassin gets only bonus spells. An assassin without a bonus spell for that level cannot yet cast a spell of that level. The assassin\rquote s spell list appears below. An assassin prepares and casts spells just as a wizard does.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Saving Throw Bonus vs. Poison: Assassins train with poisons of all types and slowly grow more and more resistant to their effects. This is reflected by a natural saving throw bonus to all poisons gained at 2nd level that increases by +1 for every two levels the assassin gains (+1 at 2nd level, +2 at 4th level, +3 at 6th level, and so on).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Uncanny Dodge: At 2nd level and above, the Assassin retains a Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) if caught flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 5th level, the Assassin can no longer be flanked. A Rogue at least four levels higher can still flank. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 10\super th\nosupersub  level, the Assassin receives a +1 bonus to Reflex saves made to avoid traps and a +1 dodge bonus to AC against attacks by traps.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Assassins choose their spells from the following list:\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st level-change self, detect poison, ghost sound, obscuring mist, spider climb.\line 2nd level-alter self, darkness, pass without trace, undetectable alignment.\line 3rd level-deeper darkness, invisibility, misdirection, nondetection.\line 4th level-dimension door, freedom of movement, improved invisibility, poison.\par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}BARBARIAN\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any nonlawful.\line Hit Die: d12.\line Class Skills: The barbarian's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), Intuit Direction (Wis), Jump (Str), Listen (Wis), Ride (Dex), Swim (Str), and Wilderness Lore (Wis). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A barbarian is proficient with all simple and martial weapons, light armor, medium armor, and shields. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: The Barbarian \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1       +1             +2      +0      +0      Rage 1/day; fast movement\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2       +2             +3      +0      +0      Uncanny dodge (Dex bonus to AC)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3       +3             +3      +1      +1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4       +4             +4      +1      +1      Rage 2/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5       +5             +4      +1      +1      Uncanny dodge (can't be flanked)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6       +6/+1          +5      +2      +2      \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7       +7/+2          +5      +2      +2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8       +8/+3          +6      +2      +2      Rage 3/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9       +9/+4          +6      +3      +3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      +10/+5         +7      +3      +3      Uncanny dodge (+1 against traps)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11      +11/+6/+1      +7      +3      +3      Damage reduction 1/-\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12      +12/+7/+2      +8      +4      +4      Rage 4/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13      +13/+8/+3      +8      +4      +4      Uncanny dodge (+2 against traps)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14      +14/+9/+4      +9      +4      +4      Damage reduction 2/-\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15      +15/+10/+5     +9      +5      +5      Greater rage\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16      +16/+11/+6/+1  +10     +5      +5      Rage 5/day, \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               uncanny dodge (+3 against traps)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17      +17/+12/+7/+2  +10     +5      +5      Damage reduction 3/-\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18      +18/+13/+8/+3  +11     +6      +6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19      +19/+14/+9/+4  +11     +6      +6      Uncanny dodge (+4 against traps)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      +20/+15/+10/+5 +12     +6      +6      Rage 6/day; \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               no longer winded after rage; \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               damage reduction 4/-\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Barbarian Rage: Barbarian temporarily gains +4 to Strength, +4 to Constitution, and a +2 morale bonus on Will saves, but suffers a -2 penalty to AC. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}The increase in Constitution increases the barbarian's hit points by 2 points per level, but these hit points go away at the end of the rage when the Constitution score drops back to normal. While raging, a barbarian cannot use skills or abilities that require patience and concentration. (The only class skills he can't use while raging are Craft, Handle Animal, and Intuit Direction.) He can use any feat he might have except for Expertise, item creation feats, metamagic feats, and Skill Focus (if it's tied to a skill that requires patience or concentration). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 3 + the character's (newly improved) Constitution modifier. The barbarian may prematurely end the rage voluntarily. At the end of the rage, the barbarian is fatigued (-2 to Strength, -2 to Dexterity, can't charge or run) for the duration of that encounter (unless the barbarian is 20th level, when this limitation no longer applies). The barbarian can only fly into a rage once per encounter, and only a certain number of times per day (determined by level). Entering a rage takes no time itself, but the barbarian can only do it during his action. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Starting at 15th level, the barbarian's rage bonuses become +6 to Strength, +6 to Constitution, and a +3 morale bonus to Will saves. (The AC penalty remains at -2.) \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Fast Movement: The barbarian has a speed faster than the norm for his race by +10 feet when wearing no armor, light armor, or medium armor (and not carrying a heavy load). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Uncanny Dodge: At 2nd level and above, the barbarian retains his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) if caught flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 5th level, the barbarian can no longer be flanked. The exception to this defense is that a rogue at least four levels higher than the barbarian can still flank. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 10th level, the barbarian gains a +1 bonus to Reflex saves made to avoid traps and a +1 dodge bonus to AC against attacks by traps. At 13th level, these bonuses rise to +2. At 16th, they rise to +3, and at 19th they rise to +4. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Damage Reduction: Starting at 11th level, the barbarian gains the extraordinary ability to shrug off some amount of injury from each blow or attack. Subtract 1 from the damage the barbarian takes each time the barbarian is dealt damage. At 14th level, this damage reduction rises to 2. At 17th, it rises to 3. At 20th, it rises to 4. Damage reduction can reduce damage to 0 but not below 0. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Illiteracy: Barbarians are the only characters that do not automatically know how to read and write. A barbarian must spend 2 skill points to gain the ability to read and write any language the barbarian is able to speak. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ex-Barbarians: A barbarian who becomes lawful loses the ability to rage and cannot gain more levels as a barbarian. The barbarian retains all the other benefits of the class. \par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}BARD\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any nonlawful.\line Hit Die: d6.\line Class Skills: The bard's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Alchemy (Int), Appraise (Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive skill), Diplomacy (Cha), Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intuit Direction (Wis), Jump (Str), Knowledge (all skills, taken individually) (Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Perform (Cha), Pick Pocket (Dex), Profession (Wis), Scry (Int, exclusive skill), Sense Motive (Wis), Speak Language (Int), Spellcraft (Int), Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex), and Use Magic Device (Cha, exclusive skill). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A bard is proficient with all simple weapons. Additionally, the bard is proficient with one of the following weapons: longbow, composite longbow, longsword, rapier, sap, short composite bow, short sword, shortbow, or whip. Bards are proficient with light armor, medium armor, and shields. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: The Bard \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1       +0             +0      +2      +2      Bardic music,  \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               Bardic knowledge\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2       +1             +0      +3      +3             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3       +2             +1      +3      +3             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4       +3             +1      +4      +4             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5       +3             +1      +4      +4             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6       +4             +2      +5      +5             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7       +5             +2      +5      +5             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8       +6/+1          +2      +6      +6             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9       +6/+1          +3      +6      +6             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      +7/+2          +3      +7      +7             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11      +8/+3          +3      +7      +7             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12      +9/+4          +4      +8      +8             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13      +9/+4          +4      +8      +8             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14      +10/+5         +4      +9      +9             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15      +11/+6/+1      +5      +9      +9             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16      +12/+7/+2      +5      +10     +10            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17      +12/+7/+2      +5      +10     +10            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18      +13/+8/+3      +6      +11     +11            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19      +14/+9/+4      +6      +11     +11            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      +15/+10/+5     +6      +12     +12            \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: Bard Spells Per Day \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1                ------------Spells per Day-----------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab\tab 0       1       2       3       4       5       6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1\tab\tab 2       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2\tab\tab 3       0       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3\tab\tab 3       1       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4\tab\tab 3       2       0       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5\tab\tab 3       3       1       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6\tab\tab 3       3       2       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7\tab\tab 3       3       2       0       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8\tab\tab 3       3       3       1       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9\tab\tab 3       3       3       2       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10\tab\tab 3       3       3       2       0       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11\tab\tab 3       3       3       3       1       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12\tab\tab 3       3       3       3       2       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13\tab\tab 3       3       3       3       2       0       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14\tab\tab 4       3       3       3       3       1       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15\tab\tab 4       4       3       3       3       2       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16\tab\tab 4       4       4       3       3       2       0\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17\tab\tab 4       4       4       4       3       3       1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18\tab\tab 4       4       4       4       4       3       2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19\tab\tab 4       4       4       4       4       4       3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20\tab\tab 4       4       4       4       4       4       4\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: Bard Spells Known \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1                ------------Spells Known-------------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab\tab 0       1       2       3       4       5       6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1\tab\tab 4       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2\tab\tab 5       2*      -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3\tab\tab 6       3       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4\tab\tab 6       3       2*      -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5\tab\tab 6       4       3       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6\tab\tab 6       4       3       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7\tab\tab 6       4       4       2*      -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8\tab\tab 6       4       4       3       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9\tab\tab 6       4       4       3       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       2*      -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       3       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       3       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       4       2*      -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       4       3       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15\tab\tab 6       4       4       4       4       3       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16\tab\tab 6       5       4       4       4       4       2*\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17\tab\tab 6       5       5       4       4       4       3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18\tab\tab 6       5       5       5       4       4       3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19\tab\tab 6       5       5       5       5       4       4\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20\tab\tab 6       5       5       5       5       5       4\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 *Provided the bard has sufficient Charisma to have a bonus spell of this level.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells: A bard casts arcane spells. The bard casts these spells without needing to prepare them beforehand or keep a spellbook. Bards receive bonus spells for high Charisma, and to cast a spell a bard must have a Charisma score at least equal to 10 + the level of the spell. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against a bard's spell is 10 + the spell's level + the bard's Charisma modifier. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Bardic Music: Once per day per level, a bard can use song or poetics to produce magical effects on those around him or her. While these abilities fall under the category of bardic music, they can include reciting poetry, chanting, singing lyrical songs, singing melodies, whistling, playing an instrument, or playing an instrument in combination with some spoken performance. As with casting a spell with a verbal component, a deaf bard suffers a 20% chance to fail with bardic music. If the bard fails, the attempt still counts against the daily limit. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}The Bardic Music effects are: \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Inspire Courage: A bard with 3 or more ranks in Perform can to inspire courage in his or her allies. To be affected, an ally must hear the bard sing for a full round. The effect lasts as long as the bard sings and for 5 rounds after the bard stops singing (or 5 rounds after the ally can no longer hear the bard). While singing, the bard can fight but cannot cast spells, activate magic items by spell completion (such as scrolls), or activate magic items by magic word (such as wands). Affected allies receive a +2 morale bonus to saving throws against charm and fear effects and a +1 morale bonus to attack and weapon damage rolls. Inspire courage is a supernatural, mind-affecting ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Countersong: A bard with 3 or more ranks in Perform can counter magical effects that depend on sound (but not spells that simply have verbal components). As with inspire courage, a bard may sing, play, or recite a countersong while taking other mundane actions, but not magical actions. Each round of the countersong, the bard makes a Perform check. Any creature within 30 feet of the bard (including the bard) who is affected by a sonic or language-dependent magical attack may use the bard's Perform check result in place of his saving throw if, after rolling the saving throw, the Perform check result proves to be better. The bard may keep up the countersong for 10 rounds. Countersong is a supernatural ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Fascinate: A bard with 3 or more ranks in Perform can cause a single creature to become fascinated with him. The creature to be fascinated must be able to see and hear the bard and must be within 90 feet. The bard must also see the creature. The creature must be able to pay attention to the bard. The distraction of a nearby combat or other dangers prevents the ability from working. The bard makes a Perform check, and the target can negate the effect with a Will saving throw equal to or greater than the bard's check result. If the saving throw succeeds, the bard cannot attempt to fascinate that creature again for 24 hours. If the saving throw fails, the creature sits quietly and listens to the song for up to 1 round per level of the bard. While fascinated, the target's Spot and Listen checks suffer a -4 penalty. Any potential threat (such as an ally of the bard moving behind the fascinated creature) allows the fascinated creature a second saving throw against a new Perform check result. Any obvious threat, such as casting a spell, drawing a sword, or aiming, automatically breaks the effect. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}While fascinating (or attempting to fascinate) a creature, the bard must concentrate, as if casting or maintaining a spell. Fascinate is a spell-like, mind- affecting charm ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Inspire Competence: A bard with 6 or more ranks in Perform can help an ally succeed at a task. The ally must be able to see and hear the bard and must be within 30 feet. The bard must also see the creature. The ally gets a +2 competence bonus on his skill checks with a particular skill as long as he or she continues to hear the bard's music. The DM may rule that certain uses of this ability are infeasible. The bard can maintain the effect for 2 minutes (long enough for the ally to take 20). Inspire competence is a supernatural, mind-affecting ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Suggestion: A bard with 9 or more ranks in Perform can make a suggestion (as the spell) to a creature that he has already fascinated (see above). The suggestion doesn't count against the bard's daily limit on bardic music performances (one per day per level), but the fascination does. A Will saving throw (DC 13 + the bard's Charisma modifier) negates the effect. Suggestion is a spell-like, mind-affecting charm ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}* Inspire Greatness: A bard with 12 or more ranks in Perform can inspire greatness in another creature. For every three levels the bard attains beyond 9th, the bard can inspire greatness in one additional creature. To inspire greatness, the bard must sing and the creature must hear the bard sing for a full round, as with inspire courage. The creature must also be within 30 feet. A creature inspired with greatness gains temporary Hit Dice, attack bonuses, and saving throw bonuses as long as he or she hears the bard continue to sing and for 5 rounds thereafter. (All these bonuses are competence bonuses.) \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}The target gains the following boosts:\line * +2 Hit Dice (d10s that grant temporary hit points).\line * +2 competence bonus on attacks.\line * +1 competence bonus on Fortitude saves. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Apply the target's Constitution modifier, if any, to each bonus Hit Die. These extra Hit Dice count as regular Hit Dice for determining effects such as the sleep spell. Inspire greatness is a supernatural, mind-affecting enchantment ability. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Bardic Knowledge: A bard may make a special bardic knowledge check with a bonus equal to his level + his Intelligence modifier to see whether he knows some relevant information about local notable people, legendary items, or noteworthy places. This check will not reveal the powers of a magic item but may give a hint as to its general function. The bard may not take 10 or take 20 on this check; this sort of knowledge is essentially random. The DM will determine the Difficulty Class of the check by referring to the table below. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1 DC      Type of Knowledge\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}--      -----------------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      Common, known by at least a substantial minority of the local population.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      Uncommon but available, known by only a few people in the area.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}25      Obscure, known by few, hard to come by.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}30      Extremely obscure, known by very few, possibly forgotten by most who once knew it, possibly known only by those who don't understand the significance of the knowledge.\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Ex-Bards: A bard who becomes lawful in alignment cannot progress in levels as a bard, though he retains all his bard abilities. \par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}BLACKGUARD\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hit Die: d10.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Requirements:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Alignment: Any evil. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Base Attack Bonus: +6. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Knowledge (religion): 2 ranks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hide: 5 ranks. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Feats: Cleave, Sunder. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Special: The blackguard must have made peaceful contact with an evil outsider who was summoned by him or someone else to have contracted the taint of true evil. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The blackguard\rquote s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Handle Animal (Cha), Heal (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge (religion) (Int), Profession (Wis), and Ride (Dex).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Blackguards are proficient with all simple and martial weapons, with all types of armor, and with shields.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: The Blackguard\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1\tab Base\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class\tab Attack  Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab Bonus   Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab +1\tab +2\tab 0\tab 0\tab Detect good, poison use\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab +2\tab +3\tab 0\tab 0\tab Dark blessing, smite good\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab +3\tab +3\tab +1\tab +1\tab Command undead, aura of despair\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab +4\tab +4\tab +1\tab +1\tab Sneak attack +1d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab +5\tab +4\tab +1\tab +1\tab Fiendish servant\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab +6\tab +5\tab +2\tab +2\tab\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab +7\tab +5\tab +2\tab +2\tab Sneak attack +2d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab +8\tab +6\tab +2\tab +2\tab\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab +9\tab +6\tab +3\tab +3\tab\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab +10\tab +7\tab +3\tab +3\tab Sneak attack +3d6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class\tab ---- Spells per Day\tab ----\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab 1st\tab 2nd\tab 3rd\tab 4th\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab 0\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab 1\tab 0\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab 1\tab 1\tab 0\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab 1\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\tab 0\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\tab 1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab 2\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab 2\tab 2\tab 2\tab 1\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Detect Good: At will, the blackguard can detect good as a spell-like ability. This ability duplicates the effects of the spell detect good.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Poison Use: Blackguards are skilled in the use of poison and never risk accidentally poisoning themselves when applying poison to a blade.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Dark Blessing: A blackguard applies his Charisma modifier (if positive) as a bonus to all saving throws.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells: Beginning at 1st level, a blackguard gains the ability to cast a small number of divine spells. To cast a spell, the blackguard must have a Wisdom score of at least 10 + the spell\rquote s level, so a blackguard with a Wisdom of 10 or lower cannot cast these spells. Blackguard bonus spells are based on Wisdom, and saving throws against these spells have a DC of 10 + spell level + the blackguard\rquote s Wisdom modifier. When the blackguard gets 0 spells of a given level, such as 0 1st-level spells at 1st level, he gets only bonus spells. (A blackguard without a bonus spell for that level cannot yet cast a spell of that level.) The blackguard\rquote s spell list appears below. A blackguard has access to any spell on the list and can freely choose which to prepare, just like a cleric. A blackguard prepares and casts spells just as a cleric does (though the blackguard cannot spontaneously cast cure or inflict spells).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Smite Good: Once a day, a blackguard of 2nd level or higher may attempt to smite good with one normal melee attack. He adds his Charisma modifier (if positive) to his attack roll and deals 1 extra point of damage per class level. For example, a 9th-level blackguard armed with a longsword would deal 1d8+9 points of damage, plus any additional bonuses from high Strength or magical effects that normally apply. If the blackguard accidentally smites a creature that is not good, the smite has no effect but it is still used up for that day. Smite good is a supernatural ability.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Aura of Despair: Beginning at 3rd level, the blackguard radiates a malign aura that causes enemies within 10 feet of him to suffer a -2 morale penalty on all saving throws. Aura of despair is a supernatural ability.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Command Undead: When a blackguard reaches 3rd level, he gains the supernatural ability to command and rebuke undead. He commands undead as would a cleric of two levels lower.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Sneak Attack: If a blackguard can catch an opponent when she is unable to defend herself effectively from his attack, he can strike a vital spot for extra damage. Basically, any time the blackguard\rquote s target would be denied her Dexterity bonus to AC (whether she actually has a Dexterity bonus or not) or when the blackguard flanks the target, the blackguard\rquote s attack deals +1d6 points of damage at 4th level and an additional +1d6 points for every three levels thereafter (+2d6 at 7th level, +3d6 at 10th level, and so on). Should the blackguard score a critical hit with a sneak attack, this extra damage is not multiplied.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ranged attacks only count as sneak attacks if the target is 30 feet away or less. A blackguard cannot make a sneak attack to deal subdual damage. The blackguard must be able to see the target well enough to pick out a vital spot and must be able to reach a vital spot. He cannot sneak attack while striking at a creature with concealment or by striking the limbs of a creature whose vitals are beyond reach.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A blackguard can only sneak attack living creatures with discernible anatomies. Undead, constructs, oozes, plants, and incorporeal creatures lack vital areas to attack. Additionally, any creature immune to critical hits is not subject to sneak attacks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}If a blackguard gets a sneak attack bonus from another source (such as rogue levels), the bonuses to damage stack.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Blackguards choose their spells from the following list:\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st level-cause fear, cure light wounds, doom, inflict light wounds, magic weapon, summon monster I*.\line 2nd level-bull\rquote s strength, cure moderate wounds, darkness, death knell, inflict moderate wounds, shatter, summon monster II*.\line 3rd level-contagion, cure serious wounds, deeper darkness, inflict serious wounds, protection from elements, summon monster III*.\line 4th level-cure critical wounds, freedom of movement, inflict critical wounds, poison, summon monster IV*.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}*Evil creatures only.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Fallen Paladins\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Blackguards who possess levels of paladin (that is to say, are now ex-paladins) gain extra abilities the more levels of paladin they possess. Those who have tasted the light of goodness and justice and turned away make the foulest villains.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: Fallen Paladin Blackguard Abilities\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1 Paladin \tab Extra\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Levels\tab\tab Ability\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-------\tab\tab -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1-2:\tab\tab Smite good once per day. (This is in addition to the ability granted \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab to all blackguards at 2nd level, so that a fallen paladin blackguard \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab can smite good a total of twice per day.)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3-4:\tab\tab Lay on hands. Once per day, the blackguard can cure himself of \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab damage equal to his Charisma bonus times his level. The blackguard \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab can only cure himself or his fiendish servant with this spell-like \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab ability.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5-6:\tab\tab Sneak attack damage increased by +1d6.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7-8:\tab\tab Fiendish summoning. Once per day, the blackguard can use a summon \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab monster I spell to call forth an evil creature. For this spell, the \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab caster level is double the blackguard\rquote s class level.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9-10:\tab\tab Undead companion. In addition to the fiendish servant, the \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab blackguard gains (at 5th level) a Medium-size skeleton or zombie as \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab a companion. This companion cannot be turned or rebuked by another \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab and gains all special bonuses as a fiendish servant when the \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab blackguard gains levels.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11+:\tab\tab Favored of the dark deities. Evil deities like nothing more than to \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab see a pure heart corrupted, and thus a fallen paladin of this \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab stature immediately gains a blackguard level for each level of \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab paladin he trades in. For example, a character who has twelve levels \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab of paladin can immediately become a 10th-level blackguard with all \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab abilities if he chooses to lose ten levels of paladin. The character \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab level of the character does not change. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab This, of course, is in every way a profitable trade for the evil \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab character, since he has already lost most of the benefits he gained \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab from having those paladin levels. However, with the loss of paladin \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab levels, the character no longer gains extra abilities found on this \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab table. Thus, a fallen paladin of 15th level could become a 10th-\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab level blackguard/5th-level paladin with the first three extra \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab abilities on this chart because of those five levels of paladin.\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\ul\f0 CLERIC\ulnone\par
\cf1{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any.  If the Cleric serves a specific deity the cleric's alignment must be within one step of his deity's, and it may not be neutral unless the deity's alignment is neutral.  Choosing to serve a specific deity is optional.\line\cf0 Hit Die: d8.\line Class Skills: The cleric's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Heal (Wis), Knowledge (arcana) (Int), Knowledge (religion) (Int), Profession (Wis), Scry (Int, exclusive skill), and Spellcraft (Int). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Domains and Class Skills: A cleric who chooses Animal or Plant as one of his domains also has Knowledge (nature) (Int) as a class skill. A cleric who chooses Knowledge as one of his domains also has all Knowledge (Int) skills as class skills. A cleric who chooses Travel as one of his domains also has Wilderness Lore as a class skill. A cleric who chooses Trickery as one of his domains also has Bluff (Cha), Disguise (Cha), and Hide (Dex) as class skills. See Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells, below, for more information. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Armor and Weapon Proficiency: Clerics are proficient with all simple weapons. Clerics are proficient with all types of armor (light, medium, and heavy) and with shields. Note that armor check penalties for armor heavier than leather apply to the skills Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick Pocket, and Tumble. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: The Cleric \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1       +0             +2      +0      +2      Turn or rebuke undead  \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2       +1             +3      +0      +3             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3       +2             +3      +1      +3             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4       +3             +4      +1      +4             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5       +3             +4      +1      +4             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6       +4             +5      +2      +5             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7       +5             +5      +2      +5             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8       +6/+1          +6      +2      +6             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9       +6/+1          +6      +3      +6             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      +7/+2          +7      +3      +7             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11      +8/+3          +7      +3      +7             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12      +9/+4          +8      +4      +8             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13      +9/+4          +8      +4      +8             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14      +10/+5         +9      +4      +9             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15      +11/+6/+1      +9      +5      +9             \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16      +12/+7/+2      +10     +5      +10            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17      +12/+7/+2      +10     +5      +10            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18      +13/+8/+3      +11     +6      +11            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19      +14/+9/+4      +11     +6      +11            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      +15/+10/+5     +12     +6      +12            \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri3945\sb100\sa100 TABLE: Cleric Spells Per Day \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri3945\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1                ------------------ Spells per Day*---------------------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level          0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1              3       1+1     -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2              4       2+1     -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3              4       2+1     1+1     -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4              5       3+1     2+1     -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5              5       3+1     2+1     1+1     -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6              5       3+1     3+1     2+1     -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7              6       4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1     -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8              6       4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1     -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9              6       4+1     4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1     -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10             6       4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1     -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11             6       5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1     -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12             6       5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1     -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13             6       5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1     -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14             6       5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1     -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1     -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1     -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     2+1     1+1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1     2+1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     3+1     3+1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20             6       5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     5+1     4+1     4+1     4+1     4+1\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 *In addition to the stated number of spells per day for 1st- through 9th-level spells, a cleric gets a domain spell for each spell level, starting at 1st. The "+1" on this list represents that. These spells are in addition to any bonus spells for having a high Wisdom. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Some deities have favored weapons, and clerics consider it a point of pride to wield them. A cleric whose deity's favored weapon is a martial weapon and who chooses War as one of his domains receives the Martial Weapon Proficiency feat related to that weapon for free, as well as the Weapon Focus feat related to that weapon. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells: A cleric casts divine spells. A cleric may prepare and cast any spell on the cleric spell list, provided he can cast spells of that level. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against a cleric's spell is 10 + the spell's level + the cleric's Wisdom modifier. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Each cleric must choose a time at which he must spend an hour each day in quiet contemplation or supplication to regain his daily allotment of spells. Time spent resting has no effect on whether a cleric can prepare spells. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}In addition to his standard spells, a cleric gets one domain spell of each spell level, starting at 1st. When a cleric prepares a domain spell, it must come from one of his two domains. \par
\cf1{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells: When your character becomes a Cleric, you may choose to have your character serve a specific deity. The cleric's deity influences his alignment, \cf0 what magic he can perform, his values, and how others see him.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Choose two from among the deity's domains for your cleric's domains. You can only select an alignment domain (such as Good) for your cleric if his alignment matches that domain. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}If your cleric is not devoted to a particular deity, you still select two domains to represent his spiritual inclinations and abilities (but the restriction on alignment domains still applies). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Each domain gives your cleric access to a domain spell at each spell level, from 1st on up, as well as a granted power. Your cleric gets the granted powers of all the domains selected. With access to two domain spells at a given spell level, a cleric prepares one or the other each day. If a domain spell is not on the Cleric Spells list, a cleric can only prepare it in his domain slot. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spontaneous Casting: Good clerics (and neutral clerics of good deities) can channel stored spell energy into healing spells that they haven't prepared ahead of time. The cleric can "lose" a prepared spell in order to cast any cure spell of the same level or lower (a cure spell is any spell with "cure" in its name). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}An evil cleric (or a neutral cleric of an evil deity), on the other hand, can't convert prepared spells to cure spells but can convert them to inflict spells (an inflict spell is one with "inflict" in the title). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A cleric who is neither good nor evil and whose deity is neither good nor evil can convert spells either to cure spells or to inflict spells (player's choice), depending on whether the cleric is more proficient at wielding positive or negative energy. Once the player makes this choice, it cannot be reversed. This choice also determines whether the neutral cleric turns or commands undead (see below). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A cleric can't use spontaneous casting to convert domain spells into cure or inflict spells. These spells arise from the particular powers of the cleric's deity, not divine energy in general. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells: A cleric can't cast spells of an alignment opposed to his own or to his deity's. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Turn or Rebuke Undead: A good cleric (or a neutral cleric who worships a good deity) has the supernatural ability to turn undead. Evil clerics (and neutral clerics who worship evil deities) can rebuke such creatures. Neutral clerics of neutral deities can do one or the other (player's choice), depending on whether the cleric is more proficient at wielding positive or negative energy. Once the player makes this choice, it cannot be reversed. This choice also determines whether the neutral cleric can cast spontaneous cure or inflict spells (see above). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A cleric may attempt to turn or rebuke undead a number of times per day equal to three plus his Charisma modifier. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Extra Turning: As a feat, a cleric may take Extra Turning. This feat allows the cleric to turn undead four more times per day than normal. A cleric can take this feat multiple times, gaining four extra daily turning attempts each time. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Bonus Languages: A cleric's list of bonus languages includes Celestial, Abyssal, and Infernal, in addition to the bonus languages available to the character because of his race. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ex-Clerics: A cleric who grossly violates the code of conduct expected by his god (generally acting in ways opposed to the god's alignment or purposes) loses all spells and class features and cannot gain levels as a cleric of that god until he atones. \par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}DRUID\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Neutral good, lawful neutral, neutral, chaotic neutral, or neutral evil.\line Hit Die: d8.\line Class Skills: The druid's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Animal Empathy (Cha, exclusive skill), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Handle Animal (Cha), Heal (Wis), Intuit Direction (Wis), Knowledge (nature) (Int), Profession (Wis), Scry (Int, exclusive skill), Spellcraft (Int), Swim (Str), and Wilderness Lore (Wis). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Druids are proficient with the following weapons: club, dagger, dart, halfspear, longspear, quarterstaff, scimitar, sickle, shortspear, and sling. Their spiritual oaths prohibit them from using weapons other than these. They are proficient with light and medium armors but are prohibited from wearing metal armor (thus, they may wear only padded, leather, or hide armor). They are skilled with shields but must use only wooden ones. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: The Druid \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1       0              +2      +0      +2      Nature sense,  \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               Animal companion\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2       +1             +3      +0      +3      Woodland stride \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3       +2             +3      +1      +3      Trackless step \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4       +3             +4      +1      +4      Resist nature's lure   \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5       +3             +4      +1      +4      Wild shape (1/day)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6       +4             +5      +2      +5      Wild shape (2/day)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7       +5             +5      +2      +5      Wild shape (3/day)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8       +6/+1          +6      +2      +6      Wild shape (Large)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9       +6/+1          +6      +3      +6      Venom immunity \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      +7/+2          +7      +3      +7      Wild shape (4/day)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11      +8/+3          +7      +3      +7      Wild shape (Tiny)      \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12      +9/+4          +8      +4      +8      Wild shape (dire)      \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13      +9/+4          +8      +4      +8      A thousand faces       \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14      +10/+5         +9      +4      +9      Wild shape (5/day)     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15      +11/+6/+1      +9      +5      +9      Wild shape (Huge),     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                               Timeless body\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16      +12/+7/+2      +10     +5      +10     Wild shape     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                              (elemental 1/day)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17      +12/+7/+2      +10     +5      +10            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18      +13/+8/+3      +11     +6      +11     Wild shape     \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}                                              (6/day, elemental 3/day)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19      +14/+9/+4      +11     +6      +11            \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      +15/+10/+5     +12     +6      +12            \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri3945\sb100\sa100 TABLE: Druid Spells Per Day \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri3945\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1                ------------------Spells per Day-----------------------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level          0       1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1              3       1       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2              4       2       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3              4       2       1       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4              5       3       2       -       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5              5       3       2       1       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6              5       3       3       2       -       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7              6       4       3       2       1       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8              6       4       3       3       2       -       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9              6       4       4       3       2       1       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10             6       4       4       3       3       2       -       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11             6       5       4       4       3       2       1       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12             6       5       4       4       3       3       2       -       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13             6       5       5       4       4       3       2       1       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14             6       5       5       4       4       3       3       2       -       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15             6       5       5       4       4       4       3       2       1       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16             6       5       5       5       4       4       3       3       2       -\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17             6       5       5       5       5       4       4       3       2       1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18             6       5       5       5       5       4       4       3       3       2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19             6       5       5       5       5       5       4       4       3       3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20             6       5       5       5       5       5       4       4       4       4\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 A druid who wears prohibited armor or wields a prohibited weapon is unable to use any of her magical powers while doing so and for 24 hours thereafter. (Note: A druid can use wooden items that have been altered by the ironwood spell so that they function as though they were steel.) \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Spells: A druid casts divine spells. A druid may prepare and cast any spell on the druid spell list provided she can cast spells of that level. She prepares and casts spells the way a cleric does (though she cannot lose a prepared spell to cast a cure spell in its place). To prepare or cast a spell, a druid must have a Wisdom score of at least 10 + the spell's level. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against a druid's spell is 10 + the spell's level + the druid's Wisdom modifier. Bonus spells for druids are based on Wisdom. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells: A druid can't cast spells of an alignment opposed to her own. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Bonus Languages: A druid may substitute Sylvan for one of the bonus languages available to her. In addition, a druid knows the Druidic language. This secret language is known only to druids, and druids are forbidden from teaching it to nondruids. Druidic has its own alphabet. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Nature Sense: A druid can identify plants and animals (their species and special traits) with perfect accuracy. The druid can determine whether water is safe to drink or dangerous. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Animal Companion: A 1st-level druid may begin play with an animal companion. This animal is one that the druid has befriended with the spell animal friendship. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Woodland Stride: Starting at 2nd level, a druid may move through natural thorns, briars, overgrown areas, and similar terrain at his or her normal speed and without suffering damage or other impairment. However, thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that are enchanted or magically manipulated to impede motion still affect the druid. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Trackless Step: Starting at 3rd level, a druid leaves no trail in natural surroundings and cannot be tracked. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Resist Nature's Lure: Starting at 4th level, a druid gains a +4 bonus to saving throws against the spell-like abilities of feys. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Wild Shape: At 5th level, a druid gains the spell-like ability to polymorph self into a Small or Medium-size animal (but not a dire animal) and back again once per day. Unlike the standard use of the spell, however, the druid may only adopt one form. As stated in the spell description, the druid regains hit points as if he or she has rested for a day. The druid does not risk the standard penalty for being disoriented while in the wild shape. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}The druid can use this ability more times per day at 6th, 7th, 10th, 14th, and 18th level, as noted. In addition, the druid gains the ability to take the shape of a Large animal at 8th level, a Tiny animal at 11th level, and a Huge animal at 15th level. At 12th level or higher, she can take the form of a dire animal. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 16th level or higher, the druid may use wild shape to change into a Small, Medium-size, or Large air, earth, fire, or water elemental once per day. The druid gains all the elemental's special abilities. At 18th level, the druid can do this three times per day. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Venom Immunity: At 9th level, a druid gains immunity to all organic poisons, including monster poisons but not mineral poisons or poison gas. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A Thousand Faces: At 13th level, a druid gains the supernatural ability to change his or her appearance at will, as if using the spell alter self. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Timeless Body: After achieving 15th level, a druid no longer suffers ability penalties for aging and cannot be magically aged. Any penalties she may have already suffered, however, remain in place. Bonuses still accrue, and the druid still dies of old age when her time is up. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Ex-Druids: A druid who ceases to revere nature or who changes to a prohibited alignment loses all spells and druidic abilities and cannot gain levels as a druid until she atones. \par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}DWARVEN DEFENDER\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Hit Die: d12.\line Requirements:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Alignment: Any lawful. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Race: Dwarf. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Base Attack Bonus: +7. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Feats: Dodge, Endurance, Toughness. \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The defender\rquote s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Craft (Int), Listen (Wis), Sense Motive (Wis), and Spot (Wis).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: The dwarven defender is proficient with all simple and martial weapons, all types of armor, and shields.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Table: The Dwarven Defender\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1\tab Base\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Class\tab Attack\tab Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab AC\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level\tab Bonus \tab Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Bonus\tab Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----\tab ------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab -----\tab -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1st\tab +1\tab +2\tab +0\tab +2\tab +1\tab Defensive stance 1/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2nd\tab +2\tab +3\tab +0\tab +3\tab +1\tab Defensive awareness (Dex bonus to AC)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3rd\tab +3\tab +3\tab +1\tab +3\tab +1\tab Defensive stance 2/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4th\tab +4\tab +4\tab +1\tab +4\tab +2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5th\tab +5\tab +4\tab +1\tab +4\tab +2\tab Defensive stance 3/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6th\tab +6\tab +5\tab +2\tab +5\tab +2\tab Damage reduction (3), defensive \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab awareness (can\rquote t be flanked)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7th\tab +7\tab +5\tab +2\tab +5\tab +3\tab Defensive stance 4/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8th\tab +8\tab +6\tab +2\tab +6\tab +3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9th\tab +9\tab +6\tab +3\tab +6\tab +3\tab Defensive stance 5/day\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10th\tab +10\tab +7\tab +3\tab +7\tab +4\tab Damage reduction (6), defensive \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab awareness (+1 vs. traps)\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Defensive Stance: When he needs to, the defender can become a stalwart bastion of defense. In this defensive stance, a defender gains phenomenal strength and durability, but he cannot move from the spot he is defending. He gains the following benefits:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 +2 Strength \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}+4 Constitution \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}+2 resistance bonus on all saves \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}+4 dodge bonus to AC \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 While defending, a defender cannot use skills or abilities that would require him to shift his position, such as Move Silently or Jump. A defensive stance lasts for 3 rounds, plus the character\rquote s (newly improved) Constitution modifier. The defender may end the defense voluntarily prior to this limit. At the end of the defense, the defender is winded and suffers a -2 penalty to Strength for the duration of that encounter. The defender can only take his defensive stance a certain number of times per day as determined by his level. Taking the stance takes no time itself, but the defender can only do so during his action.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Defensive Awareness: Starting at 2nd level, the dwarven defender gains the extraordinary ability to react to danger before his senses would normally allow him to even be aware of it. At 2nd level and above, he retains his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) regardless of being caught flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. (He still loses any Dexterity bonus to AC if immobilized.)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 6th level, the dwarven defender can no longer be flanked, since he can react to opponents on opposite sides of him as easily as he can react to a single attacker. This defense denies rogues the ability to use flank attacks to sneak attack the dwarven defender. The exception to this defense is that a rogue at least 4 levels higher than the dwarven defender can flank him (and thus sneak attack him).\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}At 10th level, the dwarven defender gains an intuitive sense that alerts him to danger from traps, giving him a +1 bonus to Reflex saves made to avoid traps.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Defensive awareness is cumulative with uncanny dodge. If the dwarven defender has another class that grants the uncanny dodge ability, add together all the class levels of the classes that grant these two abilities and determine the character\rquote s defensive awareness ability on that basis.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Damage Reduction: At 6th level, the dwarven defender gains the extraordinary ability to shrug off some amount of injury from each blow or attack. Subtract 3 from the damage the dwarven defender takes each time he is dealt damage. At 10th level, this damage reduction rises to 6. Damage reduction can reduce damage to 0 but not below 0. (That is, the defender cannot actually gain hit points in this manner.)\par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}FIGHTER\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any.\line Hit Die: d10.\line Class Skills: The fighter's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Jump (Str), Ride (Dex), and Swim (Str). \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon and Armor Proficiency: The fighter is proficient in the use of all simple and martial weapons and all armor (heavy, medium, and light) and shields. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TABLE: The Fighter \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}1       +1             +2      +0      +0      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}2       +2             +3      +0      +0      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}3       +3             +3      +1      +1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}4       +4             +4      +1      +1      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}5       +5             +4      +1      +1\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}6       +6/+1          +5      +2      +2      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}7       +7/+2          +5      +2      +2\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}8       +8/+3          +6      +2      +2      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}9       +9/+4          +6      +3      +3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}10      +10/+5         +7      +3      +3      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}11      +11/+6/+1      +7      +3      +3\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}12      +12/+7/+2      +8      +4      +4      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}13      +13/+8/+3      +8      +4      +4\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}14      +14/+9/+4      +9      +4      +4      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}15      +15/+10/+5     +9      +5      +5\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}16      +16/+11/+6/+1  +10     +5      +5      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}17      +17/+12/+7/+2  +10     +5      +5\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}18      +18/+13/+8/+3  +11     +6      +6      Bonus feat\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}19      +19/+14/+9/+4  +11     +6      +6\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}20      +20/+15/+10/+5 +12     +6      +6      Bonus feat\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlcont\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Bonus Feats: At 1st level, the fighter gets a bonus feat in addition to the feat that any 1st-level character gets and the bonus feat granted to humans. The fighter gains an additional bonus feat at 2nd level and every two levels thereafter (4th, 6th, 8th, etc.). These bonus feats must be drawn from the following list: Ambidexterity, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Dodge (Mobility, Spring Attack), Exotic Weapon Proficiency*, Expertise (Improved Disarm, Improved Trip, Whirlwind Attack), Improved Critical*, Improved Initiative, Improved Unarmed Strike (Deflect Arrows, Stunning Fist), Mounted Combat (Mounted Archery, Trample, Ride-By Attack, Spirited Charge), Point Blank Shot (Far Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Shot on the Run), Power Attack (Cleave, Improved Bull Rush, Sunder, Great Cleave), Quick Draw, Two- Weapon Fighting (Improved Two-Weapon Fighting), Weapon Finesse*, Weapon Focus*, Weapon Specialization*. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Some of the bonus feats available to a fighter cannot be acquired until the fighter has gained one or more prerequisite feats; these feats are listed parenthetically after the prerequisite feat. A fighter can select feats marked with an asterisk (*) more than once, but it must be for a different weapon each time. A fighter must still meet all prerequisites for a feat, including ability score and base attack bonus minimums. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Weapon Specialization: On achieving 4th level or higher, as a feat the fighter (and only the fighter) may take Weapon Specialization. Weapon Specialization adds a +2 damage bonus with a chosen weapon. The fighter must have Weapon Focus with that weapon to take Weapon Specialization. If the weapon is a ranged weapon, the damage bonus only applies if the target is within 30 feet, because only at that range can the fighter strike precisely enough to hit more effectively. The fighter may take this feat as a bonus feat or as a regular one. \par
\ul{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}LOREMASTER\ulnone\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Alignment: Any\line Hit Die: d4.\line Requirements:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Spellcasting: Ability to cast seven different divinations, one of which must be 3rd level or higher. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Two Knowledge Skills (Any Type): 10 ranks in each. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Feats: Any three metamagic or item creation feats, plus Skill Focus (Knowledge [any individual Knowledge skill]). \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100 Class Skills: The loremaster\rquote s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Alchemy (Int), Appraise (Int), Concentration (Con), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive skill), Gather Information (Cha), Handle Animals (Cha), Heal (Wis), Knowledge (all skills taken individually) (Int), Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis), Scry (Int), Speak Language, Spellcraft (Int), and Use Magic Device (Cha, exclusive skill).\par
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Loremasters gain no proficiency in any weapon or armor.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri3945\sb100\sa100 Table: The Loremaster\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri3945\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1 Base\tab\tab Attack\tab Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\par
Class Level\tab Bonus\tab Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Special\tab\tab Spellcasting\par
-----------\tab ------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab -------\tab\tab --------------\par
1st\tab\tab +0\tab +0\tab +0\tab +2\tab Secret\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
2nd\tab\tab +1\tab +0\tab +0\tab +3\tab Lore\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
3rd\tab\tab +1\tab +1\tab +1\tab +3\tab Secret\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
4th\tab\tab +2\tab +1\tab +1\tab +4\tab Bonus language\tab +1 level of existing class\par
5th\tab\tab +2\tab +1\tab +1\tab +4\tab Secret\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
6th\tab\tab +3\tab +2\tab +2\tab +5\tab Greater lore\tab +1 level of existing class\par
7th\tab\tab +3\tab +2\tab +2\tab +5\tab Secret\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
8th\tab\tab +4\tab +2\tab +2\tab +6\tab Bonus language\tab +1 level of existing class\par
9th\tab\tab +4\tab +3\tab +3\tab +6\tab Secret\tab\tab +1 level of existing class\par
10th\tab\tab +5\tab +3\tab +3\tab +7\tab True lore\tab +1 level of existing class\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Spellcasting: A loremaster continues training in magic as well as her field of research. Thus, when a new loremaster level is gained, the character gains new spells per day as if she had also gained a level in a spellcasting class she belonged to before she added the prestige class. She does not, however, gain any other benefit a character of that class would have gained (improved chance of controlling or rebuking undead, metamagic or item creation feats, and so on). This essentially means that she adds the level of loremaster to the level of some other spellcasting class the character has, then determines spells per day, spells known, and caster level accordingly.\par
If a character had more than one spellcasting class before she became a loremaster, she must decide to which class she adds each level of loremaster for purposes of determining spells per day when she adds the new level.\par
Secret: In their studies, loremasters stumble upon all sorts of applicable knowledge and secrets. At 1st level and every two levels afterward (3rd, 5th, 7th, and 9th levels), the loremaster chooses one secret from Table: Loremaster Secrets. Her level plus Intelligence modifier determines which secrets she can choose. She can\rquote t choose the same secret twice.\par
Table: Loremaster Secrets\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1 Level +\par
Int Modifier\tab Secret\tab\tab\tab\tab Effect\par
------------\tab ------\tab\tab\tab\tab ------\par
1\tab\tab Instant mastery  \tab\tab 4 ranks of a skill in which the \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab character has no ranks\par
2\tab\tab Secret health \tab\tab\tab +3 hit points\par
3\tab\tab Secrets of inner strength \tab +1 bonus to Will saves\par
4\tab\tab The lore of true stamina \tab +1 bonus to Fortitude saves\par
5\tab\tab Secret knowledge \tab\tab +1 bonus to Reflex saves of \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab avoidance\par
6\tab\tab Weapon trick \tab\tab\tab +1 bonus to attack rolls\par
7\tab\tab Dodge trick \tab\tab\tab +1 dodge bonus to AC\par
8\tab\tab Applicable knowledge \tab\tab Any one feat\par
9\tab\tab Newfound arcana \tab\tab 1 bonus 1st-level spell*\par
10\tab\tab More newfound arcana \tab\tab 1 bonus 2nd-level spell*\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 *As if gained through having a high ability score.\par
Lore: Loremasters gather knowledge. At 2nd level, they gain the ability to know legends or information regarding various topics, just like a bard can with bardic knowledge. The loremaster adds her level and her Intelligence modifier to the Knowledge check. See page 29 in the Player\rquote s Handbook for more information on bardic knowledge.\par
Bonus Languages: Loremasters, in their laborious studies, learn new languages in order to access more knowledge. The loremaster can choose any new language at 4th and 8th level.\par
Greater Lore: At 6th level, a loremaster gains the ability to identify magic items, as the spell, as an extraordinary ability. She may do this once per item examined.\par
True Lore: At 10th level, once per day a loremaster can use her knowledge to gain the effects of a legend lore spell or an analyze dweomer spell. True lore is an extraordinary ability.\par
\ul MONK\ulnone  \par
Alignment: Any lawful.\line Hit Die: d8.\line Class Skills: The monk's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Balance (Dex), Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (arcana) (Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis), Swim (Str), and Tumble (Dex). \par
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Monks are proficient with basic peasant weapons and special weapons whose use is part of monk training. The full list includes club, crossbow (light or heavy), dagger, handaxe, javelin, kama, nunchaku, quarterstaff, shuriken, siangham, and sling. \par
A monk using a kama, nunchaku, or siangham can strike with his or her unarmed base attack, including her more favorable number of attacks per round (see below). His or her damage, however, is standard for the weapon (1d6, crit X2), not his or her unarmed damage. The weapon must be light, so a Small monk must use Tiny versions of these weapons in order to use the more favorable base attack. \par
A monk adds her Wisdom bonus (if any) to AC, in addition to her normal Dexterity modifier, and her AC improves as she gains levels. (Only add this extra AC bonus if the total of the monk's Wisdom modifier and the number in the "AC Bonus" column is a positive number.) The Wisdom bonus and the AC bonus represent a preternatural awareness of danger, and a monk does not lose either even in situations when he or she loses her Dexterity modifier due to being unprepared, ambushed, stunned, and so on. (Monks do lose these AC bonuses when immobilized.) \par
When wearing armor, a monk loses her AC bonus for Wisdom, AC bonus for class and level, favorable multiple unarmed attacks per round, and heightened movement. Furthermore, her special abilities all face the arcane spell failure chance that the armor type normally imposes. \par
TABLE: The Monk \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Base           Fort    Ref     Will\par
Level   Attack Bonus   Save    Save    Save    Special\par
-----   ------------   ----    ----    ----    -------\par
1       0              +2      +2      +2      Unarmed Strike, \par
                                               stunning attack, evasion\par
2       +1             +3      +3      +3      Deflect Arrows feat    \par
3       +2             +3      +3      +3      Still mind     \par
4       +3             +4      +4      +4      Slow fall (20 ft.)     \par
5       +3             +4      +4      +4      Purity of body \par
6       +4             +5      +5      +5      Slow fall (30 ft.),    \par
                                               Improved Trip feat\par
7       +5             +5      +5      +5      Wholeness of body,     \par
                                               Leap of the clouds\par
8       +6/+1          +6      +6      +6      Slow fall (50 ft.)     \par
9       +6/+1          +6      +6      +6      Improved evasion       \par
10      +7/+2          +7      +7      +7      Ki strike (+1) \par
11      +8/+3          +7      +7      +7      Diamond body   \par
12      +9/+4          +8      +8      +8      Abundant step  \par
13      +9/+4          +8      +8      +8      Diamond soul, ki strike (+2)\par
14      +10/+5         +9      +9      +9             \par
15      +11/+6/+1      +9      +9      +9      Quivering palm \par
16      +12/+7/+2      +10     +10     +10     Ki strike (+3) \par
17      +12/+7/+2      +10     +10     +10     Timeless body, \par
                                               Tongue of the sun and moon\par
18      +13/+8/+3      +11     +11     +11     Slow fall (any distance)       \par
19      +14/+9/+4      +11     +11     +11     Empty body     \par
20      +15/+10/+5     +12     +12     +12     Perfect self   \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 TABLE: More Monk Abilities \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f1         Unarmed                Unarmed        AC             Unarmored\par
Level   Attack Bonus           Damage*        Bonus          Speed**\par
-----   ------------           -------        -----          ---------\par
1       +0                     1d6            +0             30 ft.\par
2       +1                     1d6            +0             30 ft.\par
3       +2                     1d6            +0             40 ft.\par
4       +3                     1d8            +0             40 ft.\par
5       +3                     1d8            +1             40 ft.\par
6       +4/+1                  1d8            +1             50 ft.\par
7       +5/+2                  1d8            +1             50 ft.\par
8       +6/+3                  1d10           +1             50 ft.\par
9       +6/+3                  1d10           +1             60 ft.\par
10      +7/+4/+1               1d10           +2             60 ft.\par
11      +8/+5/+2               1d10           +2             60 ft.\par
12      +9/+6/+3               1d12           +2             70 ft.\par
13      +9/+6/+3               1d12           +2             70 ft.\par
14      +10/+7/+4/+1           1d12           +2             70 ft.\par
15      +11/+8/+5/+2           1d12           +3             80 ft.\par
16      +12/+9/+6/+3           1d20           +3             80 ft.\par
17      +12/+9/+6/+3           1d20           +3             80 ft.\par
18      +13/+10/+7/+4/+1       1d20           +3             90 ft.\par
19      +14/+11/+8/+5/+2       1d20           +3             90 ft.\par
20      +15/+12/+9/+6/+3       1d20           +4             90 ft.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 *Small monks deal less damage.\par
**Small and dwarven monks are slower.\par
TABLE: Small Monk Unarmed Damage and Small Monk & Dwarf Monk Speed \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx8010\f1 Level          Damage         Speed\tab\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631 -----          ------         -----\par
1-2            1d4            20 ft.\par
3              1d4            25 ft.\par
4-5            1d6            25 ft.\par
6-7            1d6            35 ft.\par
8              1d8            35 ft.\par
9-11           1d8            40 ft.\par
12-14          1d10           45 ft.\par
15             1d10           55 ft.\par
16-17          2d6            55 ft.\par
18-20          2d6            60 ft.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ri4665\sb100\sa100\f0 Unarmed Strike: A monk fighting unarmed gains the benefits of the Improved Unarmed Strike feat and thus does not provoke attacks of opportunity from armed opponents that she attacks. \par
Making an off-hand attack makes no sense for a monk striking unarmed. \par
A monk fighting with a one-handed weapon can make an unarmed strike as an off-hand attack, but she suffers the standard penalties for two-weapon fighting. Likewise, a monk with a weapon (other than a special monk weapon) in her off hand gets an extra attack with that weapon but suffers the usual penalties for two-weapon fighting and can't strike with a flurry of blows. \par
Flurry of Blows: The monk may make one extra attack in a round at her highest base attack, but this attack and each other attack made that round suffer a -2 penalty apiece. This penalty applies for 1 round, so it affects attacks of opportunity the monk might make before her next action. The monk must use the full attack action to strike with a flurry of blows. A monk may also use the flurry of blows if armed with a special monk weapon (kama, nunchaku, or siangham). If armed with one such weapon, the monk makes the extra attack either with that weapon or unarmed. If armed with two such weapons, she uses one for the regular attack (or attacks) and the other for the extra attack. In any case, her damage bonus on the attack with her off hand is not reduced. \par
Usually, a monk's unarmed strikes deal normal damage rather than subdual damage. However, she can choose to deal her damage as subdual damage when grappling. \par
Stunning Attack: The monk can use this ability once per round, but no more than once per level per day. The monk must declare she is using a stun attack before making the attack roll (thus, a missed attack roll ruins the attempt). A foe struck by the monk is forced to make a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + one-half the monk's level + Wisdom modifier). In addition to receiving normal damage, If the saving throw fails, the opponent is stunned for 1 round. The stunning attack is a supernatural ability. \par
Evasion: If a monk makes a successful Reflex saving throw against an attack that normally deals half damage on a successful save, the monk instead takes no damage. Evasion can only be used if the monk is wearing light armor or no armor. It is an extraordinary ability. \par
Deflect Arrows: At 2nd level, a monk gains the Deflect Arrows feat, even if she doesn't have the prerequisite Dexterity score. \par
Fast Movement: At 3rd level and higher, a monk moves faster than normal. A monk in armor (even light armor) or carrying a medium or heavy load loses this extra speed. A dwarf or a Small monk moves more slowly than a Medium-size monk. \par
From 9th level on, the monk's running ability is actually a supernatural ability. \par
Still Mind: At 3rd level, a monk gains a +2 bonus to saving throws against spells and effects from the Enchantment school. \par
Slow Fall: At 4th level, the monk takes damage as if a fall were 20 feet shorter than it actually is. At 18th level, the monk can use a nearby wall to slow her descent and fall any distance without harm. \par
Purity of Body: At 5th level, a monk gains immunity to all diseases except for magical diseases. \par
Improved Trip: At 6th level, a monk gains the Improved Trip feat. She need not have taken the Expertise feat, normally a prerequisite. \par
Wholeness of Body: At 7th level, a monk can cure her own wounds. She can cure up to twice her current level in hit points each day, and she can spread this healing out among several uses. Wholeness of body is a supernatural ability. \par
Leap of the Clouds: At 7th level or higher, a monk's jumping distance (vertical or horizontal) is not limited according to her height. \par
Improved Evasion: At 9th level, a monk only takes half damage on a failed save. \par
Ki Strike: At 10th level, a monk's unarmed attack is empowered with ki. The unarmed strike damage from such an attack can deal damage to a creature with damage reduction as if the blow were made with a weapon with a +1 enhancement bonus. Ki strike is a supernatural ability. \par
Diamond Body: At 11th level, a monk gains immunity to poison of all kinds. Diamond body is a supernatural ability. \par
Abundant Step: At 12th level, a monk can slip magically between spaces, as per the spell dimension door, once per day. This is a spell-like ability, and the monk's effective casting level is one-half her actual level (rounded down). \par
Diamond Soul: At 13th level, a monk gains spell resistance. Her spell resistance equals her level + 10. \par
Quivering Palm: Starting at 15th level, a monk can use the quivering palm. \par
The monk can use the quivering palm attack once a week, and she must announce her intent before making her attack roll. Creatures immune to critical hits cannot be affected. The monk must be of higher level than the target (or have more levels than the target's number of Hit Dice). If the monk strikes successfully and the target takes damage from the blow, the quivering palm attack succeeds. Thereafter the monk can choose to try to slay the victim at any later time within 1 day per level of the monk. The monk merely wills the target to die (a free action), and unless the target makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + one-half the monk's level + Wisdom modifier), it dies. If the saving throw is successful, the target is no longer in danger from that particular quivering palm attack (but may be affected by another one at a later time). Quivering palm is a supernatural ability. \par
Timeless Body: After achieving 17th level, a monk no longer suffers ability penalties for aging and cannot be magically aged. (Any penalties she may have already suffered remain in place.) Bonuses still accrue, and the monk still dies of old age when her time is up. \par
Tongue of the Sun and Moon: A monk of 17th level or above can speak with any living creature. \par
Empty Body: At 19th level or higher, a monk can assume an ethereal state for 1 round per level per day, as per the spell etherealness. The monk may go ethereal on a number of different occasions during any single day as long as the total number of rounds spent ethereal does not exceed her level. Empty body is a supernatural ability. \par
Perfect Self: At 20th level, a monk is forevermore treated as an outsider rather than as a humanoid. Additionally, the monk gains damage reduction 20/+1. \par
Ex-Monks: A monk who becomes nonlawful cannot gain new levels as a monk but retain all monk abilities.\par
}
 