{\rtf1\adeflang60488\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f234\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f235\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f237\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f239\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f240\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f241\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f242\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f254\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f259\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f260\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f261\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f262\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 
Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs18 \additive \fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 HTML Preformatted;}}{\*\pgptbl }{\*\rsidtbl \rsid158651\rsid8394020\rsid9777182\rsid10641257\rsid12537211}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info{\title SRD Feats}
{\author Ryan S. Dancey}{\operator Ryan S. Dancey}{\creatim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr11\min51}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr12\min10}{\version4}{\edmins7}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords6230}{\nofchars35513}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws41660}{\vern16443}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind5\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\allowfieldendsel\rsidroot8394020 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid158651 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 
\cf1\insrsid158651\charrsid7944039 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid158651\charrsid7944039 
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid10641257 ITEM CREATION FEATS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par An item creation feat lets a spellcaster create a magic item of a certain type. Regardless of the type of item, each item creation feat has certain features in common. 
\par XP Cost: Power and energy that the spellcaster would normally have is expended when making a magic item. The XP cost equals 1/25 the cost of the item in gold pieces. A character cannot spend so much XP tha
t he or she loses a level. However, on gaining enough XP to achieve a new level, he or she can immediately expend XP on creating an item rather than keeping the XP to advance a level. 
\par Raw Materials Cost: Creating a magic item requires costly components, most of which are consumed in the process. The cost of these materials equals half the cost of the item. 
\par Using an item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory or magical workshop, special tools, and so on. A character generally has access to what he or she needs unless unusual circumstances apply. 
\par Time: The time to create a magic item depends on the feat and the cost of the item. The minimum time is 1 day. 
\par Item Cost: Brew Potion, Craft Wand, and Scribe Scroll create items that directly reproduc
e spell effects and whose power depends on their caster level. A spell from one of these items has the power it would have if cast by a spellcaster of that level. The price of these items (and thus the XP cost and the cost of the raw materials) depends on
 
the caster level. The caster level must be high enough that the spellcaster creating the item can cast the spell at that level. To find the final price in each case, multiply the caster level by the spell level and then multiply the result by a constant: 

\par Scrolls: Base price = spell level X caster level X 25 gp. Potions: Base price = spell level X caster level X 50 gp. Wands: Base price = spell level X caster level X 750 gp. 
\par Extra Costs: Any potion, scroll, or wand that stores a spell with a costly materia
l component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. For potions and scrolls, the creator must expend the material component or pay the XP when creating the item. For a wand, the creator must expend fifty copies of the material component or pay fif
ty times the XP cost. 
\par Some magic items similarly incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid10641257 METAMAGIC FEATS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Some spellcas
ters choose spells as they cast them. They can choose when they cast their spells whether to use metamagic feats to improve them. As with other spellcasters, the improved spell uses up a higher-level spell slot. If its normal casting time is 1 action, cas
ting a metamagic spell is a full-round action for a spellcaster that chooses spells as they cast them. For spells with a longer casting time, it takes an extra full-round action to cast the spell. 
\par Spontaneous Casting and Metamagic Feats: Clerics spontaneou
sly casting cure or inflict spells can cast metamagic versions of them. Casting a 1-action metamagic spell spontaneously is a full-round action, and spells with longer casting times take an extra full-round action to cast. 
\par Effects of Metamagic Feats on a 
Spell: In all ways, a metamagic spell operates at its original level even though it is prepared and cast as a higher-level spell. Saving throw modifications are not changed (unless stated otherwise in the feat description). The modifications made by these
 spells only apply to spells cast directly by the feat user. A spellcaster can\rquote t use a metamagic feat to alter a spell being cast from a wand, scroll, or other device. 
\par Multiple Metamagic Feats on a Spell: A spellcaster can use multiple metamagic feats on a single spell. Changes to its level are cumulative. 
\par Magic Items and Metamagic Spells: With the right item creation feat, a character can store a metamagic spell in a scroll, potion, or wand. Level limits for potions and wands apply to the spell\rquote s higher, metamagic level. A character doesn\rquote 
t need the metamagic feat to activate an item storing a metamagic spell. 
\par Counterspelling Metamagic Spells: Whether a spell has been enhanced by a metamagic feat does not affect its vulnerability to counterspelling or its ability to counterspell another spell. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid10641257 FEAT DESCRPITOR BLOCKS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Here is the format for feat descriptions. 
\par Feat Name [Type of feat]
\par Prerequisites: Some feats have prerequisites. A character must have the listed ability score, feat, skill, or base attack bonus in order to select or use that feat. A character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or she gains the prerequisite. 

\par A character can\rquote t use a feat if the character has lost a prerequisite. 
\par Description of what the feat does or represents in plain language. 
\par Prerequisite: A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a minimum base attack, a skill, or a level that a character must have in order to acquire this feat. This entry is absent if a feat has no prerequisite. A feat may have more than 
one prerequisite. 
\par Benefit: What the feat enables the character to do. 
\par Normal: What a character who does not have this feat is limited to or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular drawback, this entry is absent. 
\par Special: Additional facts about the feat. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid10641257 FEAT DESCRIPTIONS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Alertness [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Listen checks and Spot checks. 
\par Special: The master of a familiar gains the Alertness feat whenever the familiar is within arm\rquote s reach. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Ambidexterity [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Dex 15+. 
\par Benefit: The character ignores all penalties for using an off hand. The character is neither left-handed nor right-handed. 
\par Normal: Without this feat, a character who uses his or her off hand suffers 
a -4 penalty to attack rolls, ability checks, and skill checks. For example, a right-handed character wielding a weapon with her left hand suffers a -4 penalty to attack rolls with that weapon. 
\par Special: This feat helps offset the penalty for fighting with two weapons. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Armor Proficiency (heavy) [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium). 
\par Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
\par Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Armor Proficiency (light) [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: When a character wears a type of armor with which the character is proficient, the armor check penalty applies only to Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick Pocket, and Tumble checks. 
\par Normal: A character who is wearing armor with which she is not proficient suffers its armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Armor Proficiency (medium) [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light) 
\par Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
\par Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Blind-Fight [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: In melee, every time a character misses because of concealment, the character can reroll the miss chance percentile roll one time to see if the character actually hit. 
\par An invisible attacker gets no bonus to hit the character in melee. That is, the character doesn\rquote t lose a Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn\rquote t get the usual +2 bonus. The invisible attacker\rquote 
s bonuses do still apply for ranged attacks, however. 
\par The character suffers only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to see. Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces the character's speed to three-quarters of normal, instead of one-half. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Brew Potion [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 3rd+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create a potion of any spell of 3rd level or lower that the character knows and that targets a creature or creatures. Brewing a potion takes 1 day. When the character creates a potion, the character sets the caster level. The ca
ster level must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no higher than the character's own level. The base price of a potion is its spell level multiplied by its caster level multiplied by 50 gp. To brew a potion, the character must spend 1/25 of 
this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half this base price. 
\par When the character creates a potion, the character makes any choices that the character would normally make when casting the spell. Whoever drinks the potion is the target of the spell. 
\par Any potion that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, the character must expend the material component or pay the XP when creating the potion. 

\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Cleave [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Str 13+, Power Attack. 
\par Benefit: If the character deals a creature enough damage to make it drop (typically by dropping it 
to below 0 hit points, killing it, etc.), the character gets an immediate, extra melee attack against another creature in the immediate vicinity. The character cannot take a 5-foot step before making this extra attack. The extra attack is with the same we
apon and at the same bonus as the attack that dropped the previous creature. The character can use this ability once per round. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Combat Casting [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +4 bonus to Concentration checks made to cast a spell while on the defensive. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Combat Reflexes [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: When foes leave themselves open, the character may make a number of additional attacks of opportunity equal to the character's Dexterity modifier. The character still may only make one attack of opportunity per enemy. 
\par The character may also make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed. 
\par Special: A rogue with the Combat Reflexes feat still can only make one attack of opportunity in a round if he uses his opportunist ability to make that attack. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Craft Magic Arms and Armor [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 5th+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create any magic weapon, armor, or shield whose prerequisites the character meets. Enhancing a weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in the pr
ice of its magical features. To enhance a weapon, suit of armor, or shield, the character must spend 1/25 of its features\rquote  total price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this total price. 
\par The character can also mend a broken magic weapon, suit of armor, or shield if it is one that the character could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to enchant that item in the first place. 
\par The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a masterwork item that the character must provide. (Its cost is not included in the above cost.) 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Craft Rod [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 9th+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create any rod whose prerequisites the character meets. Crafting a rod takes 1 
day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a rod, the character must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of its base price. 
\par Some rods incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the rod\rquote s base price. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Craft Staff [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 12th+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create any staff whose prerequisites the character meets. Crafting a staff takes 1 day
 for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a staff, the character must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of its base price. 
\par A newly created staff has 50 charges. 
\par Some staffs incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the staff\rquote s base price. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Craft Wand [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 5th+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create a wand of any spell of 4th level or low
er that the character knows. Crafting a wand takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a wand is its caster level multiplied by the spell level multiplied by 750 gp. To craft a wand, the character must spend 1/25 of this base pric
e in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this base price. 
\par A newly created wand has 50 charges. 
\par Any wand that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the cost derived from the b
ase cost, the character must expend fifty copies of the material component or pay fifty times the XP cost. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Craft Wondrous Item [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 3rd+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create any miscellaneous magic item whose prerequisites the character meet. Enchanting a miscellaneous magic item takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its price. To enchant a miscellaneous magic item, the spellcaster must spend 1/25
 of the item\rquote s price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this price. 
\par The character can also mend a broken miscellaneous magic item if it is one that the character could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to enchant that item in the first place. 
\par Some wondrous items incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the item\rquote s base price. The character must pay such 
a cost to create an item or to mend a broken one. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Deflect Arrows [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Dex 13+, Improved Unarmed Strike. 
\par Benefit: The character must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this feat. Once per round when the character woul
d normally be hit with a ranged weapon, the character may make a Reflex saving throw against a DC of 20 (if the ranged weapon has a magical bonus to attack, the DC increases by that amount). If the character succeeds, the character deflects the weapon. Th
e character must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed. Attempting to deflect a ranged weapon doesn\rquote t count as an action. Exceptional ranged weapons can\rquote t be deflected. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Dodge [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Dex 13+. 
\par Benefit: During the character's action, th
e character designates an opponent and receive a +1 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks from that opponent. The character can select a new opponent on any action. Note: A condition that makes the character lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Armor C
lass (if any) also makes the character lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Empower Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by one-half. An e
mpowered spell deals half again as much damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half again as many targets, etc., as appropriate. Saving throws and opposed rolls (such as the one the character makes when the character casts dispel m
agic) are not affected. Spells without random variables are not affected. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Endurance [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: Whenever the character makes a check for performing a physical action that extends over a period of time (running, swimming, holding the character's breath, and so on), the character gets a +4 bonus to the check. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Enlarge Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: An enlarged spell has its range doubled. Spells whose ranges are not de
fined by distance do not have their ranges increased. A spell whose area or effect is determined by its range has the dimensions of its area or effect increased proportionally. An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote 
s actual level. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Extend Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. Spells with a concentration, instantaneous, or permanent duration are not affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 

\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Extra Turning [Special]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Ability to Turn Undead 
\par Benefit: Allows a character to turn undead four more times per day than normal. 
\par Special: A character can take this feat multiple times, gaining four extra daily turning attempts each time. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Exotic Weapon Proficiency [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1 or higher. 
\par Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with the weapon normally. 
\par Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with it suffers a -4 penalty on attack rolls. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time The character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. Proficiency with the bastard sword or the dwarven waraxe has a prerequisite of Str 13+. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Expertise [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Int 13+. 
\par Benefit: When the character uses the attack action or full 
attack action in melee, the character can take a penalty of as much as -5 on the character's attack and add the same number (up to +5) to the character's Armor Class. This number may not exceed the character's base attack bonus. The changes to attack roll
s and Armor Class last until the character's next action. The bonus to the character's Armor Class is a dodge bonus. 
\par Normal: A character not capable of the Expertise feat can fight defensively while using the attack or full attack action to take a -4 penalty on attacks and gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Far Shot [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
\par Benefit: When the character uses a projectile weapon, such as a bow, its range increment increases by one-half (multiply by 1.5). When the character uses a thrown weapon, its range increment is doubled. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Flyby Attack[General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Fly speed. 
\par Benefit: When flying, the creature can take a move action (including a dive) and another partial action at any point during the move. The creature cannot take a second move action during a round when it makes a flyby attack. 
\par Normal: Without this feat, the creature takes a partial action either before or after its move. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Forge Ring [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 12th+. 
\par Benefit: The char
acter can create any ring whose prerequisites the character meets. Crafting a ring takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a ring, the character must spend 1/25 of its base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of its base pr
ice. 
\par The character can also mend a broken ring if it is a ring that the character could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that ring in the first place. 
\par Some magic rings incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Great Cleave [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Str 13+, Power Attack, Cleave, base attack bonus +4 or higher. 
\par Benefit: As Cleave, except that the character has no limit to the number of times the character can use it per round. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Great Fortitude [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus to all Fortitude saving throws. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Heighten Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: A heightened spell has a higher spell level than normal (up to 9th level). Unlike other metamagic 
feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving throw DCs and ability to penetrate a minor globe of invulnerability) are calculated according to the heightene
d level. The heightened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Bull Rush [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Str 13+, Power Attack. 
\par Benefit: When the character performs a bull rush, the character does not draw an attack of opportunity from the defender. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Critical [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8 or higher. 
\par Benefit: When using the weapon the character selected, the character's threat range is doubled. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. 
\par Note: "Keen" magic weapons also double their normal, nonmagical threat range. As with all doubled doublings, the result is triple. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Disarm [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Int 13+, Expertise. 
\par Benefit: The character does not suffer an attack of opportunity when the character attempts to disarm an opponent, nor does the opponent have a chance to disarm. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Initiative [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +4 bonus on initiative checks. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Trip [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Int 13+, Expertise. 
\par Benefit: If the character trips an opponent in melee combat, the character immediately gets a melee attack against that opponent as if the character hadn\rquote t used the character's attack for the trip attempt. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Two-Weapon Fighting [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Two-Weapon Fighting, Ambidexterity, base attack bonus +9 or higher. 
\par Benefit: In addition to the standard single extra attack the character gets with an off-hand weapon, the character gets a second attack with the off-hand weapon, albeit at a -5 penalty. 
\par Normal: Without this feat, the character can only get a single extra attack with an off-hand weapon. 
\par Special: A ranger who meets only the base attack bonus prerequisite can gain this feat, but can only use it when wearing light armor or no armor. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Improved Unarmed Strike [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character is considered to be armed even when unarmed-that is, armed opponents do not get attacks of opportunity when the character attacks them while unarmed. However, the character still gets an opportunity attac
k against any opponent who makes an unarmed attack on the character. 
\par Special: A monk fighting unarmed automatically gains the benefit of this feat. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Iron Will [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus to all Will saving throws. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Leadership [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: The character must be at least 6th level.
\par Benefits: Having this feat enables the character to attract loyal companions and devoted followers, subordinates who assist her. See Table: Leadership for what sort of cohort and how many followers the character can recruit.
\par Table: Leadership
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 Leadership\tab Cohort\tab -- Number of Followers by Level --
\par Score\tab \tab Level\tab 1st\tab 2nd\tab 3rd\tab 4th\tab 5th\tab 6th
\par ----------\tab ------\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---
\par 1 or less\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 2\tab \tab 1st\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 3\tab \tab 2nd\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 4\tab \tab 3rd\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 5\tab \tab 3rd\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 6\tab \tab 4th\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 7\tab \tab 5th\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 8\tab \tab 5th\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 9\tab \tab 6th\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 10\tab \tab 7th\tab 5\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 11\tab \tab 7th\tab 6\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 12\tab \tab 8th\tab 8\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 13\tab \tab 9th\tab 10\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 14\tab \tab 10th\tab 15\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 15\tab \tab 10th\tab 20\tab 2\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 16\tab \tab 11th\tab 25\tab 2\tab 1\tab -\tab -\tab -
\par 17\tab \tab 12th\tab 30\tab 3\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\tab -
\par 18\tab \tab 12th\tab 35\tab 3\tab 1\tab 1\tab -\tab -
\par 19\tab \tab 13th\tab 40\tab 4\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1\tab -
\par 20\tab \tab 14th\tab 50\tab 5\tab 3\tab 2\tab 1\tab -
\par 21\tab \tab 15th\tab 60\tab 6\tab 3\tab 2\tab 1\tab 1
\par 22\tab \tab 15th\tab 75\tab 7\tab 4\tab 2\tab 2\tab 1
\par 23\tab \tab 16th\tab 90\tab 9\tab 5\tab 3\tab 2\tab 1
\par 24\tab \tab 17th\tab 110\tab 11\tab 6\tab 3\tab 2\tab 1
\par 25+\tab \tab 17th\tab 135\tab 13\tab 7\tab 4\tab 2\tab 2
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
Leadership Score: A character's Leadership score equals his leve
l plus any Charisma modifier. In order to take into account negative Charisma modifiers, Table: Leadership allows for very low Leadership scores, but the character must still be 6th level or higher in order to gain the Leadership feat and thus attract a c
ohort. Outside factors can affect a character's Leadership score, as detailed in Table: Leadership Modifiers.
\par Cohort Level: The character can attract a cohort of up to this level. Regardless of the character's Leadership score, he can't recruit a cohort of his level or higher.
\par Number of Followers by Level: The character can lead up to the indicated number of characters of each level. 
\par Table: Leadership Modifiers
\par General Leadership Modifiers
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 The Leader Has a Reputation of\tab \tab \tab Leadership Modifier
\par ------------------------------\tab \tab \tab -------------------
\par Great prestige\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +2
\par }{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid12537211 Fairness and generosity\tab \tab \tab }{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 +1
\par Special power\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1
\par Failure\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -1
\par Aloofness\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -1
\par Cruelty\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -2
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
Cohort-Only Leadership Modifiers
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 The Leader\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Leadership Modifier
\par ----------\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -------------------
\par Has a familiar/paladin's warhorse/\tab \tab -2 animal companion
\par Recruits a cohort of a different alignment\tab -1
\par Caused the death of a cohort\tab \tab \tab -2*
\par *Cumulative per cohort killed.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
Follower-Only Leadership Modifiers
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 The Leader\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Leadership Modifier
\par ----------\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -------------------
\par Has a st}{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid12537211 ronghold, base of operations, \tab }{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 +2 guildhouse, and so on
\par Moves around a lot\tab \tab \tab \tab -1
\par Caused the death of other followers\tab \tab -1
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
Special Cohorts: With the DM's permission, a leader may seek out a special cohort who is not a member of the standard PC races (the common races).
\par Followers: A leader attracts followers whose alignments are within one step of his own. These characters have gear appropriate to NPCs of their level. As the leader's Leadership rises, he can attract
 more followers. If his Leadership goes down, followers may desert.
\par Replacing Cohorts and Followers: If a leader loses a cohort or followers, he can generally replace them, according to his current Leadership score. It takes time (1d4 months) to recruit re
placements. If the leader is to blame for the deaths of the cohort or followers, it takes extra time to replace them, up to a full year. Note that the leader also picks up a reputation of failure, which decreases his Leadership score.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Lightning Reflexes [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus to all Reflex saving throws. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Martial Weapon Proficiency [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with the weapon normally. 
\par Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with it suffers a -4 penalty on attack rolls. 
\par The character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. 
\par A cleric whose deity\rquote s favored weapon is a martial weapon and who chooses War as one of his domains receives the Martial Weapon Proficiency feat related to that weapon for free, as well as the Weapon Focus feat related to that weapon. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Maximize Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: All v
ariable, numeric effects of a maximized spell are maximized. A maximized spell deals maximum damage, cures the maximum number of hit points, affects the maximum number of targets, etc., as appropriate. Spells without random variables are not affected. A m
aximized spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 
\par An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of each feat: the maximum result plus one-half the normally rolled result. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Mobility [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Dex 13+, Dodge. 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks of opportunity caused when the character moves out of or within a threatened area. Note: A condition that makes the character lose the Dexterity bon
us to Armor Class (if any) also makes the character lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most types of bonuses. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Mounted Archery [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Ride skill, Mounted Combat. 
\par Benefit: The penalty the character suffers when using a ranged weapon from horseback is halved: -2 instead of -4 if the character's mount is taking a double move, and -4 instead of -8 if the character's mount is running. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Mounted Combat [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Ride skill. 
\par Benefit: Once per round when the character's mount is hit in combat, the character may make a Ride check to negate the hit. The hit is negated if the character's Ride check is greater than the attack roll (essentially, the Ride check becomes the mount
\rquote s Armor Class if it\rquote s higher than the mount\rquote s regular AC). 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Multiattack [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Three or more natural weapons. 
\par Benefit: The creature\rquote s secondary attacks with natural weapons suffer only a -2 penalty. 
\par Normal: Without this feat, the creature\rquote s secondary natural attacks suffer a -5 penalty. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Multidexterity [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Dex 15+, three or more arms. 
\par Benefit: The creature ignores all penalties for using an off hand. 
\par Normal: Without this feat, a creature who uses an off hand suffers a -4 penalty to attack roll
s, ability checks, and skill checks. A creature has one primary hand, and all the others are off hands; for example, a four-armed creature has one primary hand and three off hands. 
\par Special: This feat replaces the Ambidexterity feat for creatures with more than two arms. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Multiweapon Fighting [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Three or more hands. 
\par Benefit: Penalties for fighting with multiple weapons are reduced by 2. 
\par Normal: A creature without this feat suffers a -6 penalty to attacks made with its primary hand and
 a -10 penalty to attacks made with its off hands. (It has one primary hand, and all the others are off hands.) See Attacking with Two Weapons, page 124 in the Player\rquote s Handbook. 
\par Special: This feat replaces the Two-Weapon Fighting feat for creatures with more than two arms. The Multidexterity feat further reduces penalties for off-hand attacks. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Point Blank Shot [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls with ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Power Attack [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Str 13+. 
\par Benefit: On the character's action, before making attack rolls for a round, the character may choose to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and add the same number to all melee damage rolls. This number may not exceed the character's base attack
 bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage applies until the character's next action. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Precise Shot [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
\par Benefit: The character can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an opponent engaged in melee without suffering the standard -4 penalty. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Quick Draw [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1 or higher. 
\par Benefit: The character can draw a weapon as a free action instead of as a move-equivalent action. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Quicken Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: Casting a quickened spell i
s a free action. The character can perform another action, even casting another spell, in the same round as the character casts a quickened spell. The character may only cast one quickened spell per round. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 full ro
und cannot be quickened. A quickened spell uses up a spell slot four levels higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Rapid Shot [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Dex 13+. 
\par Benefit: The character can get one extra attack per round with a ranged weapon
. The attack is at the character's highest base attack bonus, but each attack (the extra one and the normal ones) suffers a -2 penalty. The character must use the full attack action to use this feat. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Ride-By Attack [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Ride skill, Mounted Combat. 
\par Benefit: When the character is mounted and uses the charge action, the character may move and attack as with a standard charge and then move again (continuing the straight line of the charge). The character's total movement for the round can\rquote 
t exceed double the character's mounted speed. The character does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the opponent that the character attacks. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Run [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: When running, the character moves five times normal speed instead of four times normal speed. If the character makes a running jump, increase the distance or height cleared by one-fourth, but not past the maximum. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Scribe Scroll [Item Creation]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spellcaster level 1st+. 
\par Benefit: The character can create a scroll of any spell
 that the character knows. Scribing a scroll takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a scroll is its spell level multiplied by its caster level multiplied by 25 gp. To scribe a scroll, the character must spend 1/25 of this base 
price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this base price. 
\par Any scroll that stores a spell with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, the character must expend the material component or pay the XP when scribing the scroll. 

\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Shield Proficiency [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character can use a shield and suffer only the standard penalties. 
\par Normal: A character who is using a shield with which he or she is not proficient suffers the shield\rquote s armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill rolls that involve moving, including Ride. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Shot on the Run [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Dex 13+, Dodge, Mobility. 
\par Benefit: When using the attack action with a ranged weapon, the character can move both before and after the attack, provided that the character's total distance moved is not greater than the character's speed. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Silent Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 
\par Special: Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this metamagic feat. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Simple Weapon Proficiency [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with simple weapons normally. 
\par Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with it suffers a -4 penalty on attack rolls. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Skill Focus [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all skill checks with that skill. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new skill. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Spell Penetration [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus to caster level checks (1d20+caster level) to beat a creature\rquote s spell resistance. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Spell Focus [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Choose a school of magic, such as Illusion. The character's spells of that school are more potent than normal. 
\par Benefit: Add +2 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic the character selects to focus on. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new school of magic. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Spell Mastery [Special]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Spell Mastery is available only to wizards. 
\par Benefit: Each time the wizard takes this feat, choose a number of spells equal to the wizard's Intelligence modifier (they must be spel
ls that the wizard already knows). From that point on, the wizard can prepare those spells without referring to a spellbook. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Spirited Charge [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Ride skill, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack. 
\par Benefit: When mounted and using the charge action, the character deals double damage with a melee weapon (or triple damage with a lance). 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Spring Attack [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Dex 13+, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4 or higher. 
\par Benefit: When using the attack action with a melee weapon, the 
character can move both before and after the attack, provided that the character's total distance moved is not greater than the character's speed. Moving in this way does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender the character attacks. The ch
aracter can\rquote t use this feat if the character is in heavy armor. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Still Spell [Metamagic]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: A still spell can be cast with no somatic components. Spells without somatic components are not affected. A still spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell\rquote s actual level. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Stunning Fist [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Dex 13+, Improved Unarmed Strike, Wis 13+, base attack bonus +8 or higher. 
\par Benefit: Declare that the character is using the feat before making an attack roll (thus, a missed attack roll
 ruins the attempt). It forces a foe damaged by the character's unarmed attack to make a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + one-half the character's level + Wis modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. If the defender fails his saving throw, he is 
stunned for 1 round (until just before the character's next action). A stunned character can\rquote 
t act and loses any Dexterity bonus to Armor Class. Attackers get a +2 bonus on attack rolls against a stunned opponent. The character may attempt a stunning attack once per day for every four levels attained, and no more than once per round. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Sunder [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Str 13+, Power Attack. 
\par Benefit: When the character strikes at an opponent\rquote s weapon, the character does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Toughness [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character gains +3 hit points. 
\par Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Track [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: To find tracks or to follow them for one mile requires a Wilderness Lore check. The character must make anoth
er Wilderness Lore check every time the tracks become difficult to follow, such as when other tracks cross them or when the tracks backtrack and diverge. 
\par The character moves at half normal speed (or at normal speed with a -5 penalty on the check). The DC depends on the surface and the prevailing conditions: 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 Surface        DC
\par -------        --
\par Very soft      5
\par Soft           10
\par Firm           15
\par Hard           20
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
Very Soft Ground: Any surface (fresh snow, thick dust, wet mud) that holds deep, clear impressions of footprints. 
\par Soft Ground: Any surface soft enough to yield to pressure, but firmer than wet mud or fresh snow, in which the creature leaves frequent but shallow footprints. 
\par Firm Ground: Most normal outdoor surfaces (such as lawns, fields, woods, a
nd the like) or exceptionally soft or dirty indoor surfaces (thick rugs, very dirty or dusty floors). The creature might leave some traces (broken branches, tufts of hair) but leaves only occasional or partial footprints. 
\par Hard Ground: Any surface that doesn\rquote 
t hold footprints at all, such as bare rock or indoor floors. Most streambeds fall into this category, since any footprints left behind are obscured or washed away. The creature leaves only traces (scuff marks, displaced pebbles). 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 Condition                                                            DC Modifier
\par ---------                                                            -----------
\par Every three creatures in the group being tracked                     -1
\par Size of creature or creatures being tracked:*
\par   Fine                                                               +8
\par   Diminutive                                                         +4
\par   Tiny                                                               +2
\par   Small                                                              +1
\par   Medium-size                                                        0
\par   Large                                                              -1
\par   Huge                                                               -2
\par   Gargantuan                                                         -4
\par   Colossal                                                           -8
\par Every 24 hours since the trail was made                              +1
\par Every hour of rain since the trail was made                          +1
\par Fresh snow cover since the trail was made                            +10
\par Poor visibility:**
\par   Overcast or moonless night                                         +6
\par   Moonlight                                                          +3
\par   Fog or precipitation                                               +3
\par Tracked party hides trail (and moves at half speed)                  +5
\par  *For a group of mixed sizes, apply only the modifier for the largest 
\par size category.
\par **Apply only the largest modifier from this category.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
If the character fails a Wilderness Lore check, the character can retry after 1 hour (outdoors) or 10 minutes (indoors) of searching. 
\par Normal: A character without this feat can use the Search skill to find tracks, but can only follow tracks if the DC is 10 or less. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Trample [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Ride skill, Mounted Combat. 
\par Benefit: When the character attempts to overrun an opponent while mounted, the target may not choose to avoid the character. If the character k
nocks down the target, the character's mount may make one hoof attack against the target, gaining the standard +4 bonus on attack rolls against prone targets. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Two-Weapon Fighting [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Benefit: The character's penalties for fighting with two weapons are reduced by 2. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Weapon Finesse [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +1 or higher. 
\par Choose one light weapon. Alternatively, the character can choose a rapier, provided the character can use it in one hand, or a spiked chain, provided the character is at least Medium-size. 
\par Benefit: With the selected weapon, the character may use a Dexterity modifier instead of a Strength modifier on attack rolls. Since the character needs the second hand for balance, apply the armor check penalty of any shield worn to attack rolls. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Weapon Focus [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +1 or higher. 
\par The character can choose \'93unarmed strike\'94 or \'93grapple\'94 for the character's weapon for purposes of this feat. The character can choose \'93ray,\'94 in which case the character is especially good with rays. 
\par Benefit: The character adds +1 to all attack rolls the character makes using the selected weapon. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Weapon Specialization [Special]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Choose one type of weapon. The character is especially good at inflicting damage with this weapon. 
\par Benefit: The character adds +2 to all damage inflicted with the weapon the character has specialized with. If the weapon is a ranged weapon, the target must be within 30 feet. 
\par Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new weapon. 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid10641257 Whirlwind Attack [General]}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid10641257 
\par Prerequisites: Int 13+, Expertise, Dex 13+, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4 or higher, Spring Attack. 
\par Benefit: When the character performs the full attack action, he or she can give up all regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at the full base attack bonus against each opponent within 5 feet. 
\par }}