{\rtf1\adeflang60488\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff30\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f30\froman\fcharset1\fprq2{\*\panose 00000400000000000000}Sendnya;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f235\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f237\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f238\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f239\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f240\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f241\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f242\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f244\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f245\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f247\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f248\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f249\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f250\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f251\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f252\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f254\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f257\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f258\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f259\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f260\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f261\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \strike\fs24\ul\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Definition Term;}{\s16\ql \li360\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Definition List;}{\*\cs17 \additive \i Definition;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 
\ab\af30\afs48\alang60488 \fcs0 \b\fs48\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning36\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H1;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ab\af30\afs36\alang60488 
\fcs0 \b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H2;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ab\af30\afs28\alang60488 \fcs0 
\b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H3;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ab\af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H4;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ab\af30\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H5;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel6\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ab\af30\afs16\alang60488 \fcs0 
\b\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 H6;}{\s24\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \ai\af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 Address;}{\s25\ql \li360\ri360\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin360\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext25 Blockquote;}{\*\cs26 \additive 
\i CITE;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f2\fs20 CODE;}{\*\cs28 \additive \fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs29 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs30 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\*
\cs31 \additive \b\f2\fs20 Keyboard;}{\s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext32 Preformatted;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\brdrt\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af1\afs16\alang60488 \fcs0 
\v\f1\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Bottom of Form;}{\s34\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrdb\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af1\afs16\alang60488 \fcs0 
\v\f1\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 \shidden HTML Top of Form;}{\*\cs35 \additive \f2 Sample;}{\*\cs36 \additive \fcs1 \ab\af0 \fcs0 \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}{\*\cs37 \additive \f2\fs20 Typewriter;}{\*\cs38 
\additive \i Variable;}{\*\cs39 \additive \v\cf6 HTML Markup;}{\*\cs40 \additive \v Comment;}{\s41\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext41 \styrsid6840308 Normal (Web);}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid983659\rsid1324927\rsid3749089\rsid6840308\rsid10098088\rsid11033503}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info
{\title SRD NPCs, Familiars, Mounts & Companions}{\author Ryan Dancey}{\operator Ryan S. Dancey}{\creatim\yr2001\mo9\dy13\hr13\min24}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr12\min9}{\version5}{\edmins4}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords2664}{\nofchars15191}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws17820}{\vern16443}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind5\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot11033503 \fet0{\*\background {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025
{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn posrelh}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn posrelv}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd \linex0\headery1440\footery1440\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s41\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6840308 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs18 \fcs0 
\fs18\cf1\insrsid6840308 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\ul\insrsid6840308 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
NPCs, FAMILIARS, MOUNTS & COMPANIONS
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\ul\insrsid10098088 BLACKGUARD'S FIENDISH SERVANT}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
\par Upon or after reaching 5th level, a blackguard can call a fiendish bat, cat, dire rat, horse, pony, raven, or toad to serve him. This creature may be used as a guardian (such as a bat), a helper (such as a cat), or a mount (such as
 a horse). The blackguard\rquote s servant further gains HD and special abilities based on the blackguard\rquote s character level.
\par The blackguard may have only one fiendish servant at a time. Should the blackguard\rquote s servant die, he may call for another one after one}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid3749089  year and a}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
 day. The new fiendish servant has all the accumulated abilities due a servant of the blackguard\rquote s current level.
\par Table: Fiendish Servants
\par }\pard\plain \s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 
\insrsid10098088 Blackguard
\par Character\tab Bonus\tab Natural\tab St
\par Level\tab \tab HD\tab Armor\tab Adj.\tab Int\tab Special
\par ----------\tab -----\tab -------\tab ----\tab ---\tab -------
\par 12 or less\tab +2 HD\tab +1\tab +1\tab 6\tab Improved evasion,\~share spells, empathic \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6840308 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10098088 link, share saving throws
\par 13\endash 15\tab \tab +4 HD\tab +3\tab +2\tab 7\tab Speak with blackguard
\par 16\endash 18\tab \tab +6 HD\tab +5\tab +3\tab 8\tab Blood bond
\par 19\endash 20\tab \tab +8 HD\tab +7\tab +4\tab 9\tab Spell resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 Blackguard Character Level: The
 character level of the blackguard (his blackguard level plus his original class level).
\par Bonus Hit Dice: These are extra d8 Hit Dice, each of which gains a Constitution modifier, as normal. Extra Hit Dice improve the servant\rquote s base attack and base save bonuses, as normal.
\par Natural Armor: This is a bonus to the servant\rquote s natural armor rating.
\par Str Adj.: Add this figure to the servant\rquote s Strength score.
\par Int: The servant\rquote s Intelligence score. (The fiendish servant is smarter than normal animals of its kind.)
\par Impr
oved Evasion: If the servant is subjected to an attack that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it takes no damage on a successful saving throw and only half damage on a failed saving throw. Improved evasion is an extraordinary ability.

\par Share Spells: At the blackguard\rquote 
s option, he may have any spell he casts on himself also affect his servant. The servant must be within 5 feet. If the spell has a duration other than instantaneous, the spell stops affecting the servant if it moves farther 
than 5 feet away and will not affect the servant again even if the servant returns to the blackguard before the duration expires. Additionally, the blackguard may cast a spell with a target of \'93You\'94
 on his servant (as a touch range spell) instead of on himself. The blackguard and the servant can share spells even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of the servant\rquote s type (magical beast).
\par Empathic Link: The blackguard has an empathic link with the servant out to a distance of up to one mile. The blackguard cannot see through the servant\rquote 
s eyes, but they can communicate telepathically. Even intelligent servants see the world differently from humans, so misunderstandings are always possible. This empathic link is a supernatural ability.
\par Because of the empathic link between the servant and the blackguard, the blackguard has the same connection to a place or an item that the servant does.
\par Share Saving Throws: The servant uses its own base save or the blackguard\rquote s, whichever is higher.
\par Speak with Blackguard: The blackguard and servant can communicate verbally as if they were using a common language. Other creatures do not understand the communication without magical help.
\par Blood Bond: The servant gains a +2 bonus to all attacks, checks, and saves if it witnesses the blackguard threatened or harmed. This bonus lasts as long as the threat is immediate and apparent.
\par Spell Resistance: The servant\rquote s spell resistance equals the blackguard\rquote s level + 5. To affect the servant with a spell, a spellcaster must make a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) at least equal to the servant\rquote 
s spell resistance.
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\ul\insrsid10098088 PALADIN'S MOUNT}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
\par The paladin's mount is different from a standard animal of its type in many ways. The standard mount for a Medium-size paladin is a warhorse, and the 
standard mount for a Small paladin is a warpony. A paladin's mount is a magical beast, not an animal. It is superior to a normal mount of its kind and has special powers, as shown below 
\par }\pard\plain \s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 
\insrsid10098088 Paladin        Bonus   Natural        Str
\par Level          HD      Armor          Adj.    Int     Special
\par -------        -----   -------        ----    ---     -------
\par 5\endash 7            +2      4              +1      6       Improved evasion, share  
\par                                                       spells, empathic link, share 
\par                                                       saving throws
\par 8\endash 10           +4      6              +2      7
\par 11\endash 14          +6      8              +3      8       Command creatures of its kind
\par 15\endash 20          +8      10             +4      9       Spell resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
Paladin Level: The level of the paladin. If the mount suffers a level drain, treat it as a mount of a lower-level paladin. 
\par Bonus HD: These are extra eight-sided (d8) Hit Dice, each of which gains a Constitution modifier, as normal. Remember that extra Hit Dice improve the mount's base attack and base save bonuses. 
\par Natural Armor: The number listed here is an improvement to the mount's AC. It represents the preternatural toughness of a paladin's mount. 
\par Str Adj.: Add this figure to the mount's Strength score. 
\par Int: The mount's Intelligence score. 
\par Improved Evasion: If the mount is subjected to an attack that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it takes no damage if it make
s a successful saving throw and half damage even if the saving throw fails. Improved evasion is an extraordinary ability. 
\par Share Spells: At the paladin's option, the paladin may have any spell cast on him or herself also affect her mount. The mount must be
 within 5 feet. If the spell has a duration other than instantaneous, the spell stops affecting the mount if it moves farther than 5 feet away and will not affect the mount again even if the mount returns to the paladin before the duration expires. Additi
onally, the paladin may cast a spell with a target of "You" on the mount (as a touch range spell) instead of on herself. The paladin and the mount can share spells even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of the mount's type. 
\par Empathic Link: The 
paladin has an empathic link with the mount out to a distance of up to one mile. The paladin cannot see through the mount's eyes, but they can communicate telepathically. Even intelligent mounts see the world differently from humans, so misunderstandings 
are always possible. This is a supernatural ability. 
\par Because of the empathic link between the mount and the paladin, the paladin has the same connection to an item or place that the mount does, just as a master and his familiar. 
\par Share Saving Throws: The mount uses its own base save or the paladin's, whichever is higher. 
\par Command: The mount's command ability is a spell-like ability that it can use at will against other creatures of its kind with fewer Hit Dice than it has itself. The mount can use this abil
ity once per day per two levels of its paladin, and the ability functions just like the spell command (for purposes of this spell, the mount can make itself be understood by any normal animal of its kind). Since this is a spell-like ability, the mount mus
t make a Concentration check (DC 21) if it's being ridden at the time (as in combat). If the check fails, the ability does not work that time, but it still counts against the mount's daily uses. 
\par Spell Resistance: The mount's spell resistance equals the paladin's level + 5. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\ul\insrsid10098088 DRUID & RANGER ANIMAL COMPANIONS}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
\par Druids and rangers can use the animal friendship spell to gain animal companions. Use these rules of thumb when characters have animal companions.
\par While the spell allows a character to have animals whose 
Hit Dice total double the character's caster level, that maximum assumes optimal conditions. The typical adventurer should be able to maintain animal companions whose Hit Dice total half the maximum caster level
. If the character spends most of her time in the animals' home territory and treats them well, she can approach and even achieve her maximum Hit Dice. If she spends most of her time at sea, in cities, or otherwise in places that the animals don't like
, her animals desert, and she will not be able to retain even half her maximum. Remember, these creatures are loyal friends but not pets or servants. They won't remain loyal if being the character's friend becomes too onerous.
\par The animal is still an animal
. It's not a magical beast, as a familiar or a paladin's mount is. While it may have learned some tricks, it's still no more intelligent than any other animal of its kind, and it retains all its bestial instincts. Unlike intelligent followers or cohorts, 
a
nimals can't follow complex instructions, such as "Attack the gnoll with the wand." A character can give a simple verbal command, such as "Attack" or "Come," as a free action, provided such a command is among the tricks the animal has learned. A more comp
l
ex instruction, such as telling an animal to attack and pointing out a specific target, is a standard action. Animals are ill-equipped to handle unusual situations, such as combats with invisible opponents, and they typically hesitate to attack weird and 
unnatural creatures, such as beholders and oozes.
\par Left to its own judgment, an animal follows a character and attacks creatures that attack her (or that attack the animal itself). To do more than that, it needs to learn tricks. An animal with an Intelligenc
e of 2 can learn six tricks. Possible tricks include:
\par "Attack": The animal attacks apparent enemies. The character may point to a particular creature to direct the animal to attack that creature. Normally, an animal will not attack unnatural creatures (tho
ugh it will defend people, guard places, and protect characters against them). Teaching an animal to be willing to attack unnatural creatures counts as two tricks.
\par "Come": The animal comes to the character, even if the animal normally would not do so (such as following the character onto a boat).
\par "Defend": The animal defends the character (or is ready to defend the character if no threat is present).
\par "Down": The animal breaks off from combat or otherwise backs down.
\par "Fetch": The animal goes and gets something. The character must point out a specific object or the animal fetches some random object.
\par "Guard": The animal stays in place and prevents others from approaching.
\par "Heel": The animal follows the character closely, even to places where it normally wouldn't go.
\par "Perform": The animal does a variety of simple tricks like sitting up, rolling over, roaring, and so on.
\par "Protect": The animal follows a specific other character and protects him from danger (like "Defend," but for another character).
\par "Seek": The animal moves into an area and looks around for anything unusual.
\par "Stay": The animal stays in place waiting for the character to return. It does not challenge other creatures that come by, though it still defends itself if it needs to.
\par "Track": The animal tracks the scent presented to it.
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\ul\insrsid10098088 SORCERER & WIZARDS FAMILIARS}{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
\par Familiar: A sorcerer or a wizard can call a familiar. Doing so takes a day and uses up magical materials that cost 100 gp. A familiar is a magical, unusually tough, and intelligent v
ersion of a small animal. It is a magical beast, not an animal. The creature serves as a companion and servant. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\cf1\insrsid10098088\charrsid6840308 Even if the character is multiclassed with two or more classes that allow a familiar, only one familiar is permitted.  For these kinds of multi
classed characters all the class levels in classes allowing a familiar are combined for determining the familiar\rquote s abilities.
\par }{\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 The master chooses the type of familiar he gets. As the master increases in level, the familiar also increases in power. In the sp
ecial case of a character with both sorcerer and wizard levels, the character can add those levels together to determine the power level of the familiar.
\par If the familiar dies, or the master chooses to dismiss it, the master must attempt a Fortitude saving 
throw (DC 15). If the saving throw fails, the master loses 200 experience points per class level. A successful saving throw reduces the loss to half of that amount. However, a master's experience point total can never go below zero as the result of a fami
liar's demise. A slain or dismissed familiar cannot be replaced for a year and day. Slain familiars can be raised from the dead just as characters can be, but do not lose a level or a Constitution point when this happy event occurs. 
\par These special abilities only apply when the master and familiar are within one mile of each other. 
\par Table: Familiars 
\par }\pard\plain \s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 
\insrsid10098088 Familiar               Special
\par --------               -------
\par Bat                    -
\par Cat                    Master gains a +2 bonus to Move Silently checks
\par Hawk                   -
\par Owl                    Has low-light vision; master gains a +2 bonus on
\par                        Move Silently checks
\par Rat                    Master gains a +2 bonus to Fortitude saves
\par Raven                  Speaks one language
\par Snake (Tiny)           Poisonous bite
\par Toad                   Master gains +2 to Constitution score
\par Weasel                 Master gains a +2 bonus on Reflex saves
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 
Familiar Basics: Use the basic statistics for a creature of its type, but make these changes: 
\par Hit Dice: Treat as the master's character level (for effects related to Hit Dice). Use the familiar's normal total if it is higher. 
\par Hit Points: One-half the master's total, rounded down. 
\par Attacks: Use the master's base attack bonus. Use the familiar's Dexterity or Strength modifier, whichever is greater, to get the familiar's melee attack bonus with unarmed attacks. Damage equals that of a normal creature of that type. 
\par Saving Throws: The familiar uses the master's base saving throw bonuses if they're better than the familiar's. 
\par Skills: Use the normal skills for an animal of that type or the master's, whichever are better. 
\par Familiar Ability Descriptions: All familiars have special abilities (or impart abilities to their masters) depending on the level of the master. The abilities are cumulative. 
\par Table: Familiar Special Abilities 
\par }\pard\plain \s32\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 
\insrsid10098088 Master                 Natural
\par Class Level            Armor          Int            Special
\par -----------            -------        ---            -------
\par 1\endash 2                    +1             6              Alertness, improved evasion, share
\par                                                      spells, empathic link
\par 3\endash 4                    +2             7              Touch
\par 5\endash 6                    +3             8              Speak with master
\par 7\endash 8                    +4             9              Speak with animals of its type
\par 9\endash 10                   +5             10      
\par 11\endash 12                  +6             11             Spell resistance
\par 13\endash 14                  +7             12             Scry on familiar
\par 15\endash 16                  +8             13
\par 17\endash 18                  +9             14
\par 19\endash 20                  +10            15
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\nowidctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af30\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af30\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\insrsid10098088 Natural Armor: This 
number improves the familiar's AC. 
\par Intelligence: The familiar's Intelligence score. 
\par Alertness: The presence of the familiar sharpens its master's senses. While the familiar is within arm's reach, the master gains Alertness. 
\par Improved Evasion: If the fami
liar is subjected to an attack that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, the familiar takes no damage if it makes a successful saving throw and half damage even if the saving throw fails. Improved evasion is an extraordinary ability. 

\par Sha
re Spells: At the master's option, he may have any spell he or she casts on themselves also affect a familiar. The familiar must be within 5 feet at the time. If the spell has a duration other than instantaneous, the spell stops affecting the familiar if 
i
t moves farther than 5 feet away. The spell's effect will not be restored even if the familiar returns to the master before the duration would otherwise have ended. Additionally, the master may cast a spell with a target of "You" on a familiar (as a Touch
 range spell) instead. The master and familiar can share spells even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of the familiar's type. 
\par Empathic Link: The master has an empathic link with the familiar out to a distance of up to one mile. The master cannot see through the familiar's eyes, but the two of them can communicate telepathically. This is a supernatural ability. 
\par Because of the empathic link between the familiar and the master, the master has the same connection to an item or place that the familiar does. For instance, if his familiar has seen a room, a master can teleport into that room as if he has seen it too. 

\par Touch: If the master is 3rd level or higher, the familiar can deliver touch spells for the master. When the master casts a touch spell
, the familiar can be designated as the "toucher." (The master and the familiar have to be in contact at the time of casting.) The familiar can then deliver the touch spell just as the master could. As normal, if the master casts another spell, the touch 
spell dissipates. 
\par Speak with Animals of Its Type: The familiar can communicate with animals of approximately the same type as itself (including dire variants). The communication is limited by the Intelligence of the conversing creatures. 
\par Speak with Master: The familiar and master can communicate verbally as if they were using a common language. Other creatures do not understand the communication with out magical help. 
\par Spell Resistance: If the master is 11th level or higher, the familiar gains spell resistance equal to the master's level + 5. 
\par Scry: If the master is 13th level or higher, the master may scry on the familiar (as if casting the spell scrying) once per day. This is a spell-like ability that requires no material components or focus. 
\par }}