{\rtf1\adeflang60488\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f242\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f243\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f245\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f246\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f247\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f248\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f249\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f250\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f262\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f263\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f265\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f266\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f267\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f268\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f269\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f270\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 
Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs18 \additive \fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 HTML Preformatted;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1761648268{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\fbias0 
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }
{\listname ;}\listid1924071691}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1924071691\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\pgptbl }{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7944039\rsid10190842\rsid10504018\rsid14699634\rsid15551003\rsid15610273\rsid16593209}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info{\title SRD Skills I}{\author Ryan S. Dancey}{\operator Ryan S. Dancey}{\creatim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr11\min53}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr13\min10}{\version6}{\edmins7}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords6878}{\nofchars39206}
{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws45993}{\vern16443}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind5\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\allowfieldendsel\rsidroot14699634 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7944039 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 
\cf1\insrsid7944039\charrsid7944039 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid7944039\charrsid7944039 
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid15551003 SKILL DESCRIPTIONS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par This section describes each skill, including common uses and typical modifiers.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid15551003 Skill Description Format}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Skill Name ([KEY ABILITY]; TRAINED ONLY; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY; [CLASS NAME] ONLY)
\par The skill name line includes the following information:
\par Key Ability: The abbreviation of the ability whose modifier applies to the skill check. Exception: Speak Language has "None" listed as its key ability because the use of this skill does not require a check.
\par Trained Only: If "Trained Only" is included in the skill name line, the character mus
t have at least 1 rank in the skill to use it. If it is omitted, the skill can be used untrained (with a rank of 0). If any special notes apply to trained or untrained use, they are covered in the Special section (see below).
\par Armor Check Penalty: Apply any armor check penalty to skill checks for this skill.
\par [Class Name] Only: The skill is exclusive to a certain class or classes. No character not of these classes can take the skill. If omitted, the skill is not exclusive.
\par The skill name line is followed by a general description of what using the skill represents. After the description are three other types of information:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid15551003 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fcs1 
\af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Check: What the character can do with a successful skill check, how much time it takes to make a check, and the check's DC.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid15551003 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Retry: Any 
conditions that apply to successive attempts to use the skill successfully. If this paragraph is omitted, the skill can be retried without any inherent penalty other than consuming additional time.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid15551003 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Special: Any extra facts that apply to the skill, such a
s rules regarding untrained use, or if this skill has a synergistic relationship with other skills, or benefits that certain characters receive because of class or race.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid15551003 
THE SKILLS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Alchemy (INT; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can make alchemical items.
 Some items the character can make are found in the item descriptions. To determine how much time and material it takes to make an alchemical item, use the DCs listed below and the rules for making things found in the Craft skill description.
\par The DM may allow an alchemist to perform other tasks related to alchemy, such as identifying an unknown substance or a poison. Doing so takes 1 hour.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC\~\~\~\~\~ Notes
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --\~\~\~\~\~ -----
\par Identify substance\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25\~\~\~\~\~ Costs 1 gp per attempt (or 20 gp to take 20)
\par Identify potion\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25\~\~\~\~\~ Costs 1 gp per attempt (or 20 gp to take 20)
\par Make acid\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15\~\~\~\~\~ See Craft skill
\par Identify poison\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Make alchemist's fire,\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20\~\~\~\~\~ See Craft skill
\par smokestick, or 
\par tindertwig
\par Make antitoxin, sunrod,\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25\~\~\~\~\~ See Craft skill
\par tanglefoot bag, or
\par thunderstone
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Retry: Yes, but in the case of making items, each failure ruins the half the raw materials needed, and the character has to pay half the raw material cost again. For identifying substances or potions, each failure consumes the cost per attempt.
\par Special: The character must have alchemical equipment to make an item or identify it. For identifying items, the cost represen
ts additional supplies the character must buy. Purchasing and maintaining an alchemist's lab grants a +2 circumstance bonus to Alchemy checks (from the favorable condition of having the perfect tools for the job) but does not affect the cost of any items 
made using the skill.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Animal Empathy (CHA; TRAINED ONLY; DRUID, RANGER ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can improve the attitude of an animal with a successful check. To use the skill, the character and the animal must be able to study each other, noting each oth
er's body language, vocalizations, and general demeanor. This means that the character must be within 30 feet under normal conditions.
\par Generally, influencing an animal in this way takes 1 minute, but, as with influencing people, it might take more or less time.
\par This skill works on animals. The character can use it with a \endash 4 penalty on beasts and magical beasts.
\par Retry: As with attempts to influence people, retries on the same animal generally don't work (or don't work any better), whether the character has succeeded or not.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Appraise (INT)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can appraise common or well-known objects within 10% of their value (DC 12). Failure means the character estimates the value at 50% to 150% of actual value. The DM secretly rolls 2d6+3, multiplies by 10%
, multiplies the actual value by that percentage, and tells the character that value for the item. (For a common or well-known item, the character's chance of estimating the value within 10% is fairly high even if the character fails the check\emdash 
in such a case, the character made a lucky guess.)
\par Rare or exotic items require a successful check against DC 15, 20, or higher. If successful, the character estimates the value at 70% to 130% of its actual value. The DM secretly rolls 2d4+5, multiplies by 10%, multip
lies the actual value by that percentage, and tells the character that value for the item. Failure means the character cannot estimate the item's value.
\par A magnifying glass gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Appraise checks involving any item that is small or
 highly detailed, such as a gem. A merchant's scale gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Appraise checks involving any items that are valued by weight, including anything made of precious metals. These bonuses stack.
\par Appraising an item takes 1 minute.
\par Retry: Not on the same object, regardless of success.
\par Special: If the character is making the check untrained, for common items, failure means no estimate, and for rare items, success means an estimate of 50% to 150% (2d6+3 times 10%).
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Balance (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can walk on a precarious surface as a move-equivalent action. A successful check lets the character move at half the character's speed along the surface for 1 round. A failure means that the character can't move for 1 round. A f
ailure by 5 or more means that the character falls. 
\par The difficulty varies with the surface:
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Surface\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par -------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par 7\endash 12 inches wide\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par 2\endash 6 inches wide \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Less than 2 inches wide\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Uneven Floor\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par Surface Angled\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +5*
\par Surface Slippery\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +5*
\par *Cumulative; if both apply, use both.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Being Attacked while Balancing: Attacks against the character are made as if the character were off balance
: They gain a +2 attack bonus, and the character loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. If the character has 5 or more ranks in Balance, then the character can retain the Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) in the face of attacks. If the character takes damage, the 
character must make a check again to stay balanced.
\par Accelerated Movement: The character can try to walk a precarious surface more quickly than normal. If the character accepts a \endash 5 penalty, the character can move at normal speed as a move-equivalent action.
 (Moving twice the character's speed in a round requires two checks.)
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Tumble, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Balance checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Bluff (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: A Bluff check is opposed by the target's Sense Motive
 check. Favorable and unfavorable circumstances weigh heavily on the outcome of a bluff. Two circumstances can weigh against the character: The bluff is hard to believe, or the action that the target is to take goes against the target's self-interest, nat
u
re, personality, orders, etc. If it's important, the DM can distinguish between a bluff that fails because the target doesn't believe it and one that fails because it just asks too much of the target. For instance, if the target gets a +10 bonus because t
h
e bluff demands something risky of the target, and the Sense Motive check succeeds by 10 or less, then the target didn't so much see through the bluff as prove reluctant to go along with it. If the target succeeds by 11 or more, he has seen through the bl
uff (and would have done so even if it had not entailed any demand on him).
\par A successful Bluff check indicates that the target reacts as the character wishes, at least for a short time (usually 1 round or less) or believes something that the character wants him to believe.
\par A bluff requires interaction between the character and the target. Creatures unaware of the character cannot be bluffed. A bluff always takes at least 1 round (and is at least a full-round action) but can take much longer if the character 
tries something elaborate.
\par Feinting in Combat: The character can also use Bluff to mislead an opponent in combat so that he can't dodge the character's attack effectively. Doing so is a miscellaneous standard action that does not draw an attack of opportun
ity. If the character is successful, the next attack the character makes against the target does not allow him to use his Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any). This attack must be made on or before your next turn. Feinting in this way against a nonhuma
noid is difficult because it's harder to read a strange creature's body language; the character suffers a \endash 4 penalty. Against a creature of animal Intelligence (1 or 2) it's even harder; the character suffers a \endash 
8 penalty. Against a nonintelligent creature, it's impossible.
\par Creating a Diversion to Hide: The character can use Bluff to help the character hide. A successful Bluff check can give the character the momentary diversion the character needs to attempt a Hide check while people are aware of the character.
\par Retry: Generally, a failed Bluff check makes the target too suspicious for a bluffer to try another one in the same circumstances. For feinting in combat, the character may retry freely.
\par Special: Having 5 or more ranks in Bluff gives the character a +
2 synergy bonus on Intimidate and Pick Pocket checks and a +2 synergy bonus on an Innuendo check to transmit a message. Also, if the character has 5 or more ranks of Bluff, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Disguise checks when the character knows 
that the character is being observed and the character tries to act in character.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Climb (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: With each successful Climb check, the character can advance up, down, or across a slope or a wall or other steep incline (or even a cei
ling with handholds) one-half the character's speed as a miscellaneous full-round action. The character can move half that far, one-fourth of the character's speed, as a miscellaneous move-equivalent action. A slope is considered to be any incline of less
 than 60 degrees; a wall is any incline of 60 degrees or steeper.
\par A failed Climb check means that the character makes no progress, and a check that fails by 5 or more means that the character falls from whatever height the character has already attained.
\par A climber's kit gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Climb checks.
\par The DC of the check depends on the conditions of the climb.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Example Wall or Surface
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ -----------------------
\par 0\~\~\~\~\~\~ A slope too steep to walk up. A knotted rope with a wall to brace against.
\par 5\~\~\~\~\~\~ A rope with a wall to brace against, or a knotted rope, or a rope affected 
\par         by the rope trick spell.
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ A surface with ledges to hold on to and stand on, such as a very rough wall 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ or a ship's rigging.
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Any surface with adequate handholds and footholds (natural or artificial), 
\par \tab such as a very rough natural rock surface or a tree. An unknotted rope.
\par 20\~\~\~\~\~ An uneven surface with some narrow handholds and footholds, such as a 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ typical wall in a dungeon or ruins.
\par 25\~\~\~\~\~ A rough surface, such as a natural rock wall or a brick wall.
\par 25\~\~\~\~\~ Overhang or ceiling with handholds but no footholds.
\par \emdash \~\~\~\~\~\~ A perfectly smooth, flat, vertical surface cannot be climbed.
\par \endash 10*\~\~\~ Climbing a chimney (artificial or natural) or other location where one 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ can brace against two opposite walls (reduces DC by 10).
\par \endash 5*\~\~\~\~ Climbing a corner where the character can brace against perpendicular walls (reduces 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC by 5).
\par +5*\~\~\~\~ Surface is slippery (increases DC by 5).
\par \~*These modifiers are cumulative; use any that apply.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Since the character can't move to avoid a blow while climbing, enemies can attack the character as if the character were stunned: An attacker gets a +2 bonus, and the character loses any Dexterity bonus to Armor Class. 
\par The character cannot use a shield while climbing.
\par Any time the character takes damage while climbing, make a Climb check against the DC of the slope or wall. Failure means the character falls from the character's current height and sustains the appropriate falling damage.
\par Accelerated Climbing: The character tries to climb more quickly than normal. As a miscellaneous full-round action, the character can attempt to cover the character's full speed in climbing distance, but the character suffers a \endash 
5 penalty on Climb checks and the character must make two checks each round. Each successful check allows the character to climb a distance equal to one-half the character's speed. By accepting the \endash 5 penalty, the character can move this
 far as a move-equivalent action rather than as a full-round action.
\par Making the character's Own Handholds and Footholds: The character can make his or her own handholds and footholds by pounding pitons into a wall. Doing so takes 1 minute per piton, and on
e piton is needed per 3 feet. As with any surface with handholds and footholds, a wall with pitons in it has a DC of 15. In the same way, a climber with a handaxe or similar implement can cut holds in an ice wall.
\par Catching the One's Self When Falling: It's practically impossible to catch the one's self on a wall while falling. Make a Climb check (DC = wall's DC + 20) to do so. A slope is a lot easier to catch the one's self on (DC = slope's DC + 10).
\par Special: A character with 5 or more ranks in Use Rope gets a +2 synergy bonus on checks to climb a rope, a knotted rope, or a rope and wall combination.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Concentration (CON)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can use this skill to maintain concentration in the face of other distractions.
\par The table below summarizes various types of distractions that cause the character to make a Concentration check while casting a spell. "Spell level" refers to the level of the spell the character is trying to cast.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 DC\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Distraction
\par --\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -----------
\par 10 + damage dealt\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Injury or failed saving throw during the
\par + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ casting of a spell (for spells with a casting time of 1 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ full round or more) or injury by an attack of opportunity 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ or readied attack made in response to the spell being 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ cast (for spells with a casting time of 1 action). 
\par 10 + half of\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Suffering automatic continuous damage
\par continuous damage
\par + spell level
\par 10 + damage dealt\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Damaged by spell.
\par + spell level
\par Distracting spell's\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Distracted by nondamaging spell. (If the
\par save DC + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ spell allows no save, use the save DC it would have 
\par  \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ if it did allow a save.)
\par 20 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Grappling or pinned. (Can only cast spells without 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ somatic components and whose material component is 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ in hand.)
\par 10 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Vigorous motion (on a moving mount, bouncy wagon ride, 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ small boat in rough water, belowdecks in a storm-tossed
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ ship).
\par 15 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Violent motion (galloping horse, very rough wagon ride, 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ small boat in rapids, on deck of storm-tossed ship).
\par 20 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Affected by earthquake spell.
\par 5 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Weather is a high wind carrying blinding rain or sleet.
\par 10 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Weather is wind-driven hail, dust, or debris.
\par Distracting spell's\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Weather caused by spell, such as storm of
\par save DC + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ vengeance (same as distracted by nondamaging spell).
\par 15 + spell level\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Casting defensively (so as not to provoke attacks of 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ opportunity).
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Caster entangled.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Special: A character with the Combat Casting feat gets a +4 bonus to Concentration checks made to cast a spell while on the defensive.
\par Retry: Yes, though a success doesn't cancel the effects of a previous failure.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Craft (INT)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Craft is actually a number of separate skills. For instance, the character could have the skill Craft (trapmaking). The chara
cter's ranks in that skill don't affect any checks the character happens to make for pottery or leatherworking, for example. The character could have several Craft skills, each with its own ranks, each purchased as a separate skill.\~
\par A Craft skill is specifically focused on creating something; if it is not, it is a Profession.
\par Check: The character can practice a trade and make a decent living, earning about half the check result in gold pieces per week of dedicated work. The character 
knows how to use the tools of the trade, how to perform the craft's daily tasks, how to supervise untrained helpers, and how to handle common problems. (Untrained laborers and assistants earn an average of 1 silver piece per day.)
\par However, the basic functi
on of the Craft skill is to allow the character to make an item of the appropriate type. The DC depends on the difficulty of the item created. The DC, the character's check results, and the price of the item determine how long it takes to make the item. T
h
e item's finished price also determines the cost of raw materials. (In the game world, it is the skill level required, the time required, and the raw materials required that determine an item's price. That's why the item's price and DC determine how long 
it takes to make the item and the cost of the raw materials.)
\par All crafts require artisan's tools to give the best chance of success; if improvised tools are used instead, the check is made with a \endash 2 circumstance penalty. On the other hand, masterwork artisan's tools provide a +2 circumstance bonus.
\par To determine how much time and money it takes to make an item:
\par 1. Find the DC listed here or have the DM set one.
\par 2. Pay one-third the item's price in raw materials.
\par 3. Make a skill check representing one week's work.
\par If the check succeeds, multiply the check result by the DC. If the result times the DC equals the price of the item multiplied by 10, then the character has completed the item. (If the result times the DC equals double or triple the price of the item 
(multiplied by 10), then the character has completed the task in one-half or one-third the time, and so on.) If the result times the DC doesn't equal the price multiplied by 10, then it represents progress the character has made this week. Record the resu
lt and make a check for the next week. Each week the character makes more progress until the character's total reaches the price of the item multiplied by 10.
\par If the character fails the check, the character makes no progress this week. If the character fails by 5 or more, the character ruins half the raw materials and have to pay half the original raw material cost again.
\par Progress by the Day: The character can make checks by the day instead of by the week, in which case the character's progress (result times DC) is at one tenth the weekly rate.
\par Creating Masterwork Items: The character can make a masterwork item (an item that conveys a bonus to its use through its exceptional craftsmanship, not through being magical). 
\par To create a masterwork version of an item on the table below, the character creates the masterwork component as if it were a separate item in addition to the standard item. 
\par The masterwork component has its own price and DC. Once both the standard component and the masterwork component are comple
ted, the masterwork item is finished. (Note: The price the character pays for the masterwork component is one-third of the given amount, just as it is for the price in raw materials.)
\par Repairing Items: Generally, the character can repair an item at the same DC that it takes to make it in the first place. The cost of repairing an item is one-fifth the item's price.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Craft\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               -----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Armor, shield\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Armorsmith\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10 + AC bonus
\par Longbow, shortbow\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Bowmaking\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 12
\par Composite longbow,\~Composite shortbow        Bowmaking\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Mighty bow\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Bowmaking\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15 +2/Str bonus
\par Crossbow\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Weaponsmith\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Simple melee or thrown weapon\~               Weaponsmith\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 12
\par Martial melee or\~thrown weapon      \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Weaponsmith\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Exotic melee or\~thrown weapon \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~  Weaponsmith\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 18
\par Very simple item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Varies     \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~5
\par Typical item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Varies\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par High-quality item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~               Varies\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Complex or superior\~item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~             Varies\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
In some cases, the "fabricate" spell can be used to achieve the results of a Craft check without the character's needing to make the check. However, the character must make an appropriate Craft check when using the spell to make articles requiring a high 
degree of craftsmanship (jewelry, swords, glass, crystal, etc.).
\par A Craft check related to woodworking in conjunction with the casting of the "ironwood" spell enables the character to make wooden items that have the strength of steel.
\par When casting the spell "minor creation", the character must succeed at an appropriate Craft check to make a complex item, such as a Craft (bowmaking) check to make straight arrow shafts.
\par Retry: Yes, but each time the character misses by 5 or more, the character ruins half the raw materials and have to pay half the original raw material cost again.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Decipher Script (INT; TRAINED ONLY; BARDS & ROGUES ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can decipher writing in an unfamiliar language or a message written in an incomplete or archaic form. The base DC is 20 for the simplest messages, 25 for standard texts, and 30 or higher for intricate, exotic, or very old writing.

\par If the check succeeds, the character understands the general content of a piece of writing, reading about one single page of text (o
r its equivalent) in 1 minute. If the check fails, the DM makes a Wisdom check (DC 5) for the character to see if he or she avoids drawing a false conclusion about the text. (Success means that the character does not draw a false conclusion; failure means
 that the character does.)
\par The DM secretly makes both the skill check and (if necessary) the Wisdom check so the character can't tell whether the conclusion the character draws is true or false.
\par Retry: No.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Decipher Script, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Diplomacy (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can change others' attitudes with a successful check. In negotiations, participants roll opposed Diplomacy checks to se
e who gains the advantage. Opposed checks also resolve cases when two advocates or diplomats plead opposite cases in a hearing before a third party.
\par Retry: Generally, retries do not work. Even if the initial check succeeds, the other character can only be 
persuaded so far, and a retry may do more harm than good. If the initial check fails, the other character has probably become more firmly committed to his position, and a retry is futile.
\par Special: Charisma checks to influence NPCs are generally untrained Diplomacy checks.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Bluff or Sense Motive, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Diplomacy checks. These bonuses stack.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Disable Device (INT; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par The effort requires at least a simple tool of the appropriate sort (a pick, pry bar, saw, file, etc.). Attempting a Disable Device check without a set of thieves' tools carries a \endash 
2 circumstance penalty, even if a simple tool is employed. The use of masterwork thieves' tools enables the character to make the check with a +2 circumstance bonus.
\par Check: The DM makes the Disable Device check so that the character doesn't necessarily know whether the character has succeeded. The amount of time needed to make a check and the DC for the check depend on how tricky the device
 is. Disabling a simple device takes 1 round (and is at least a full-round action). Intricate or complex devices require 2d4 rounds. The character also can rig simple devices such as saddles or wagon wheels to work normally for a while and then fail or fa
ll off some time later (usually after 1d4 rounds or minutes of use).
\par Disabling (or rigging or jamming) a fairly simple device has a DC of 10. More intricate and complex devices have a higher DC. The DM rolls the check. If the check succeeds, the character d
isables the device. If the check fails by up to 4, the character has failed but can try again. If the character fails by 5 or more, something goes wrong. If it's a trap, the character springs it. If it's some sort of sabotage, the character thinks the dev
ice is disabled, but it still works normally.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Device\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Time\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC*\~\~\~\~ Example
\par ------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ ---\~\~\~\~ -------
\par Simple\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 1 round\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10\~\~\~\~\~ Jam a lock
\par Tricky\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 1d4 rounds\~\~\~\~ 15\~\~\~\~\~ Sabotage a wagon wheel
\par Difficult\~\~\~\~\~ 2d4 rounds\~\~\~\~ 20\~\~\~\~\~ Disarm a trap, reset a trap
\par Wicked\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 2d4 rounds\~\~\~\~ 25\~\~\~\~\~ Disarm a complex trap, cleverly 
\par                                       sabotage a clockwork device
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
*If the character attempts to leave behind no trace of the tampering, add 5 to the DC.
\par Retry: Yes, though the character must be aware that the character has failed in order to try again.
\par A rogue who beats a trap's DC by 10 or more can generally study a trap, figure out how it works, and bypass it (along with his companions) without disarming it.
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15610273 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15610273 
Special: Rogues (and only rogues) can disarm magic traps. A magic trap generally has a DC of 25 + the level of the magic used to create it.
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Disguise (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par The effort requires at least a few props, some makeup, and 1d3
 X 10 minutes of work. The use of a disguise kit provides a +2 circumstance bonus to a Disguise check. A disguise can include an apparent change of height or weight of no more than one-tenth the original.
\par The character can also impersonate people, either individuals or types, so that, for example, the character might, with little or no actual disguise, make the character seem like a traveler even if the character is a local.
\par Check: The character's Disguise check result determines how good the disguise is, a
nd it is opposed by others' Spot check results. Make one Disguise check even if several people make Spot checks. The DM makes the character's Disguise check secretly so that the character is not sure how good it is.
\par If the character doesn't draw any attent
ion to him or herself, however, others do not get to make Spot checks. If the character comes to the attention of people who are suspicious (such as a guard who is watching commoners walking through a city gate), the DM can assume that such observers are 
taking 10 on their Spot checks.
\par The effectiveness of the character's disguise depends in part on how much the character is attempting to change his or her appearance:
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Disguise\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Modifier
\par --------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --------
\par Minor details only\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +5
\par Disguised as different sex\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -2
\par Disguised as different race\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -2
\par Disguised as different age category\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -2*
\par Disguised as specific class\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -2
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
*Per step of difference between character's actual age category and disguised age category (young [younger than adulthood], adulthood, middle age, old, venerable).
\par If the character is impersonating a particular individual, those who know what that person looks like get a bonus on their Spot checks (and are automatically considered to be suspicious of the character, so opposed checks are always invoked).
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Familiarity\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Bonus
\par -----------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -----
\par Recognizes on sight\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +4
\par Friends or associates\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +6
\par Close friends\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +8
\par Intimate\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +10
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Usually, an individual makes a check for detection immediately upon meeting the character and each hour thereafter. If the character casuall
y meet many different creatures, each for a short time, check once per day or hour, using an average Spot bonus for the group. For example, if a character is trying to pass for a merchant at a bazaar, the DM can make one Spot check per hour for the people
 she encounters using a +1 bonus on the check to represent the average of the crowd (most people with no Spot ranks and a few with good Spot skills).
\par Retry: A character may try to redo a failed disguise, but once others know that a disguise was attempted they'll be more suspicious.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks of Bluff, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Disguise checks when the character knows that the character is being observed and the character tries to act in character.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Escape Artist (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: Making a check to escape from being bound up by ropes, manacles, or other restraints (except a grappler) requires 1 minute of work. Escaping a net or entangle spell is a full-round action. Squeezing through a tight spa
ce takes at least 1 minute, maybe longer, depending on how long the space is.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Restraint\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ---------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Ropes\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Binder's Use Rope check at +}{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid10504018 1}{\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 0
\par Net\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Manacles\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 30
\par Tight space\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 30
\par Masterwork manacles\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 35
\par Grappler\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Grappler's grapple check
\par Animate rope spell,\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par command plants spell,
\par control plants spell,
\par or entangle spell
\par Snare spell\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 23
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Ropes: The character's Escape Artist check is opposed by the binder's Use Rope check. Since it's easier to tie someone up than to escape from being tied up, the binder gets a special +10 bonus on her check.
\par Manacles and Masterwork Manacles: Manacles have a DC set by their construction.
\par Net: Escaping from a net is a full-round action.
\par Tight Space: This is the DC for getting through a space where one's head fits but one's 
shoulders don't. If the space is long, such as in a chimney, the DM may call for multiple checks. The character can't fit through a space that the character's head does not fit through.
\par Grappler: The character can make an Escape Artist check opposed by the
 enemy's grapple check to get out of a grapple or out of a pinned condition (so that the character is just being grappled). Doing so is a standard action, so if the character escapes the grapple the character can move in the same round. See "Wriggle Free"
 under Other Grappling Options.
\par Spell: Escaping from an animate rope, command plants, control plants, or entangle spell is a full-round action.
\par Retry: The character can make another check after a failed check if the character is squeezing through a tight sp
ace, making multiple checks. If the situation permits, the character can make additional checks or even take 20 as long as the character is not being actively opposed.
\par Special: A character with 5 or more ranks of Use Rope gets a +2 synergy bonus on Escape Artist checks when escaping from rope bonds.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Forgery (INT)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: Forgery requires writing materials appropriate to the document being forged, enough light to write by, wax for seals (if appropriate), and some time. Forging a very short and simple document
 takes about 1 minute. Longer or more complex documents take 1d4 minutes per page. To forge a document on which the handwriting is not specific to a person (military orders, a government decree, a business ledger, or the like), the character needs only to
 
have seen a similar document before and gains a +8 bonus on the roll. To forge a signature, an autograph of that person to copy is needed, and the character gains a +4 bonus on the roll. To forge a longer document written in the hand of some particular pe
rson, a large sample of that person's handwriting is needed.
\par The DM makes the check secretly so the character is not sure how good the forgery is. As with Disguise, the character doesn't need to make a check until someone examines the work. This Forgery che
ck is opposed by the person who examines the document to check its authenticity. That person makes a Forgery check opposed to the forger's. The reader gains bonuses or penalties to his or her check as described in the table below.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003           \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Reader's 
\par Condition\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Check Modifier
\par ---------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --------------
\par Type of document unknown to reader\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ \endash 2
\par Type of document somewhat known to reader\~\~\~\~ +0
\par Type of document well known to reader\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +2
\par Handwriting not known to reader\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ \endash 2
\par Handwriting somewhat known to reader\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +0
\par Handwriting intimately known to reader\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +2
\par Reader only casually reviews the document\~\~\~\~ \endash 2
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 A
s with Bluff, a document that contradicts procedure, orders, or previous knowledge or one that requires sacrifice on the part of the person checking the document can increase that character's suspicion (and thus create favorable circumstances for the chec
ker's opposing Forgery check).
\par Retry: Usually, no. A retry is never possible after a particular reader detects a particular forgery. But the document created by the forger might still fool someone else. The result of a Forgery check for a particular documen
t must be used for every instance of a different reader examining the document. No reader can attempt to detect a particular forgery more than once; if that one opposed check goes in favor of the forger, then the reader can't try using his own skill again
, even if he's suspicious about the document.
\par Special: To forge documents and detect forgeries, one must be able to read and write the language in question. (The skill is language-dependent.) Barbarians can't learn the Forgery skill unless they have learned to read and write.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Gather Information (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: By succeeding at a skill check (DC 10), given an evening with a few gold pieces to use for making friends by buying drinks and such, the character can get a general idea of what the major news items are i
n a city, assuming no obvious reasons exist why the information would be withheld. The higher the check result, the better the information.
\par If the character wants to find out about a specific rumor, specific item, obtain a map, or do something else along those lines, the DC is 15 to 25 or higher.
\par Retry: Yes, but it takes an evening or so for each check, and characters may draw attention to themselves if they repeatedly pursue a certain type of information.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Handle Animal (CHA; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The time required to get an effect and the DC depend on what the character is trying to do.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Time\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Handle a domestic animal\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Varies\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par "Push" a domestic animal\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Varies\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Teach an animal tasks\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 2 months\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Teach an animal unusual tasks\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 2 months\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Rear a wild animal\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 1 year\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15 + HD of animal
\par Rear a beast\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 1 year\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20 + HD of beast
\par Train a wild animal\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 2 months\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20 + HD of animal
\par Train a beast\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 2 months\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25 + HD of beast
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
Time: For a task with a specific time frame, the character must spen
d half this time (at the rate of 3 hours per day per animal being handled) working toward completion of the task before the character makes the skill check. If the check fails, the character can't teach, rear, or train that animal. If the check succeeds, 
t
he character must invest the remainder of the time before the teaching, rearing, or training is complete. If the time is interrupted or the task is not followed through to completion, any further attempts to teach, rear, or train the same animal automatic
ally fail.
\par Handle a Domestic Animal: This means to command a trained dog, to drive beasts of labor, to tend to tired horses, and so forth.
\par "Push" a Domestic Animal: To push a domestic animal means to get more out of it than it usually gives, such as commanding a poorly trained dog or driving draft animals for extra effort.
\par Teach an Animal Tasks: This means to teach a domestic animal some tricks. The character can train one type of animal per rank (chosen when the ranks are purchased) to obey commands and per
form simple tricks. The character can work with up to three animals at one time, and the character can teach them general tasks. An animal can be trained for one general purpose only.
\par Teach an Animal Unusual Tasks: This is similar to teaching an animal tas
ks, except that the tasks can be something unusual for that breed of animal, such as training a dog to be a riding animal. Alternatively, the character can use this aspect of Handle Animal to train an animal to perform specialized tricks, such as teaching
 a horse to rear on command or come when whistled for or teaching a falcon to pluck objects from someone's grasp.
\par Rear a Wild Animal or a Beast: To rear an animal or beast means to raise a wild creature from infancy so that it is domesticated. A handler can
 rear up to three creatures of the same type at once. A successfully domesticated animal or beast can be taught tricks at the same time that it's being raised, or can be taught as a domesticated animal later.
\par Train a Wild Animal and Train a Beast mean train a wild creature to do certain tricks, but only at the character's command. The creature is still wild, though usually controllable.
\par Retry: For handling and pushing domestic animals, yes. For training and rearing, no.
\par Special: A character with 5 or more ranks of Animal Empathy gets a +2 synergy bonus on Handle Animal checks with animals. A character must have 9 or more ranks of Animal Empathy to get the same +2 synergy bonus on Handle Animal checks with beasts.
\par A character with 5 or more ranks of Handle Animal gets a +2 synergy bonus on Ride checks.
\par An untrained character can use a Charisma check to handle and push animals.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Heal (WIS)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The DC and effect depend on the task the character attempts.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par First aid\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Long-term care\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Treat caltrop wound\~\~\~ 15
\par Treat poison\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ PoisOn's DC
\par Treat disease\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Disease's DC
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
First Aid: First aid usually means saving a dying character. If 
a character has negative hit points and is losing hit points (at 1 per round, 1 per hour, or 1 per day), the healing character can make her stable. The injured character regains no hit points, but she does stop losing them. The check is a standard action.

\par Long-term Care: Providing long-term care means treating a wounded person for a day or more. If successful, the character lets the patient recover hit points or ability score points (lost to temporary damage) at twice the normal rate: 2 hit points per leve
l
 for each day of light activity, 3 hit points per level for each day of complete rest, and 2 ability score points per day. The character can tend up to six patients at a time. The character needs a few items and supplies (bandages, salves, and so on) that
 are easy to come by in settled lands.
\par Giving long-term care counts as light activity for the healer. The character cannot give long-term care to him or herself.
\par A healer's kit gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Heal checks.
\par Treat Wound that Reduces Base Speed: A creature that has its speed reduced can be treated by the Heal skill. A successful Heal check removes this movement penalty. Treating such a wound is a standard action.
\par Treat Poison: To treat poison means to tend a single character who has been poisoned and who is going to take more damage from the poison (or suffer some other effect). 
\par Every time the poisoned character makes a saving throw against the poison, the character makes a Heal check. The poisoned character uses the character's result in place of her saving throw if the character's Heal result is higher.
\par Treat Disease: To treat a disease means to tend a diseased character. Every time the diseased character makes a saving throw against disease effects, the character makes a Heal check. The disea
sed character uses the character's result in place of his or her saving throw if the character's Heal result is higher.
\par A creature wounded by a spike growth or spike stones spell must succeed at a Reflex save or take injuries that slow his speed by one-thi
rd. Another character can remove this penalty by taking 10 minutes to dress the victim's injuries and succeeding at a Heal check against the spell's save DC.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Profession (herbalist), the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Heal checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Hide (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character's Hide check is opposed by the Spot check of anyone who might see the character. The character can move up to one-half normal speed and hide at no penalty. At more than one-half and up to the full speed, the character suffers a 
\endash 5 penalty. It's practically impossible (\endash 20 penalty) to hide while running or charging.
\par Larger and smaller creatures get size bonuses and size penalties on Hide checks: Fine +16, Diminutive +12, Tiny +8, Small +4, Large \endash 4, Huge \endash 8, Gargantuan \endash 12, Colossal \endash 16.
\par If people are observing the character, even casually, the character can't hide. The character can run around a corner or something so that the character is out of sight and then hide, but the ot
hers then know at least where the character went. If the character's observers are momentarily distracted (as by a Bluff check; see below), though, the character can attempt to hide. While the others turn their attention from the character, the character 
can attempt a Hide check if the character can get to a hiding place of some kind. (As a general guideline, the hiding place has to be within 1 foot per rank the character has in Hide.) This check, however, is at \endash 
10 because the character has to move fast.
\par Creating a Diversion to Hide: The character can use Bluff to help the character hide. A successful Bluff check can give the character the momentary diversion the character needs to attempt a Hide check while people are aware of the character.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Innuendo (WIS; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can get a message across to another character with the Innuendo skill. 
\par The DC for a basic message is 10. The DC is 15 or 20 for complex messages, especially those that rely on getting across new informatio
n. Also, the character can try to discern the hidden message in a conversation between two other characters who are using this skill. The DC is the skill check of the character using Innuendo, and for each piece of information that the eavesdropper is mis
sing, that character suffers a \endash 2 penalty on the check. For example, if a character eavesdrops on people planning to assassinate a visiting diplomat, the eavesdropper suffers a \endash 
2 penalty if he doesn't know about the diplomat. Whether trying to send or intercept a message, a failure by 5 or more points means that some false information has been implied or inferred.
\par The DM makes the character's Innuendo check secretly so that the character doesn't necessarily know whether the character was successful.
\par Retry: Generally, retries are allowed when trying to send a message, but not when receiving or intercepting one. Each retry carries the chance of miscommunication.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Bluff, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on th
e check to transmit (but not receive) a message. If the character has 5 or more ranks in Sense Motive, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on the check to receive or intercept (but not transmit) a message.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Intimidate (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: The character can change others' behavior with a successful check. The DC is typically 10 + the target's Hit Dice. Any bonuses that a target may have on saving throws against fear increase the DC.
\par Retry: Generally, retries do not work. Even if the initial check succeeds, the othe
r character can only be intimidated so far, and a retry doesn't help. If the initial check fails, the other character has probably become more firmly resolved to resist the intimidator, and a retry is futile.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Bluff , the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Intimidate checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid15551003 Intuit Direction (WIS; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 
\par Check: By concentrating for 1 minute, the character can determine where true north lies in relation to the character (DC 15). If the check fails, the
 character cannot determine direction. On a natural roll of 1, the character errs and mistakenly identify a random direction as true north.
\par The DM makes the character's check secretly so that the character doesn't know whether the character rolled a successful result or a 1.
\par Retry: The character can use Intuit Direction more than once per day. The roll represents how sensitive to direction the character is at that point in the day. Use the most recently rolled number for all other checks in the same day
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7944039 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid15551003 Spe
cial: Untrained characters can't use an innate sense of direction, but they could determine direction by finding clues.
\par }}