{\rtf1\adeflang60488\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f235\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f237\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f238\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f239\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f240\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f241\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f242\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f258\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f259\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f260\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f261\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 
Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs18 \additive \fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 HTML Preformatted;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1070795712{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\fbias0 
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fs20\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }
{\listname ;}\listid849561283}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid849561283\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\pgptbl }{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1014899\rsid6912711\rsid7296773\rsid14228933}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info{\title SRD Skills II}
{\author Ryan S. Dancey}{\operator Ryan S. Dancey}{\creatim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr11\min53}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr12\min13}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords5037}{\nofchars28717}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws33687}{\vern16443}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind5\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\allowfieldendsel\rsidroot7296773 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1014899 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 
\cf1\insrsid1014899\charrsid7944039 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid1014899\charrsid7944039 
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Jump (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character jumps a minimum distance plus an additional distance depending on the amount by which the character's Jump check result exceeds 10. The maximum distance of any jump is a function of the character's height.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ \tab \tab Minimum\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Maximum
\par Type of Jump\~\~ \tab \tab Distance\~\~\~\~\~\~ Additional Distance\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Distance
\par ------------\~\~ \tab \tab --------\~\~\~\~\~\~ -------------------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --------
\par Running jump*\~ \tab \tab 5 ft.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +1 ft./1 point above 10\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Height X 6
\par Standing jump\~ \tab \tab 3 ft.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +1 ft./2 points above 10\~\~\~\~\~\~ Height X 2
\par Running \~\~\~\~\~\~ \tab \tab 2 ft.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +1 ft./4 points above 10\~\~\~\~\~\~ Height X 1 1/2
\par high jump* Standing\tab 2 ft.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +1 ft./8 points above 10\~\~\~\~\~\~ Height
\par high jump Jump back\tab 1 ft.\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ +1 ft./8 points above 10\~\~\~\~\~\~ Height
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
*The character must move 20 feet before jumping. A character can't take a running jump in heavy armor.
\par The distances listed are for characters with speeds of 30 feet. If the character has a lower speed (from armor, encumbrance, or weight carried, for instance), reduce the distance j
umped proportionally. If the character has a higher speed (because the character is a barbarian or an experienced monk, for instance), increase the distance jumped proportionally.
\par Distance moved by jumping is counted against maximum movement in a round normally.
\par If the character intentionally jumps down from a height, the character might take less damage than if the character just fell. If the character succeeds at a Jump check (DC 15), the character takes damage as if the character had fallen 10 feet less 
than the character actually did.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Tumble, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Jump checks.
\par A character who has the Run feat and who makes a running jump increases the distance or height he clears by one-fourth, but not past the maximum.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Knowledge (INT; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: Answering a question within the character's field of study has a DC of 10 (for really easy questions), 15 (for basic questions), or 20 to 30 (for really tough questions).
\par Retry: No. The check represents what the character knows, and thinking about a topic a second time doesn't let the character know something the character never learned in the first place.
\par Special: An untrained Knowledge check is simply an Intelligence check. Without actual training, a character only knows common knowledge.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Listen (WIS)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: Make a Listen check against a DC that reflects how quiet the noise is that the character might hear or against an opposed Move Silently check.
\par The DM may make the Listen check so that the character doesn't know whether not hearing anything means that nothing is there, or that the character rolled low.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Sound
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ -----
\par 0\~\~\~\~\~\~ People talking
\par 5\~\~\~\~\~\~ A person in medium armor walking at a slow pace
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ (10 ft./round) trying not to make noise.
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ An unarmored person walking at a slow pace
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ (15 ft./round) trying not to make any noise
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ A 1st-level rogue using Move Silently within
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10 ft. of the listener
\par 19\~\~\~\~\~ A cat stalking
\par 30\~\~\~\~\~ An owl gliding in for a kill
\par +1\~\~\~\~\~ Per 10 ft. from the listener
\par +5\~\~\~\~\~ Through a door
\par +15\~\~\~\~ Through a stone wall
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
In the case of people trying to be quiet, the listed DCs could be replaced by Move Silently checks, in which case the listed DC would be the average result (or close to it). 
\par Retry: The character can make a Listen check every time the character has a chance to hear something in a reactive manner. As a full-round action, the character may try to hear something the character failed to hear previously.
\par Special: When several characters are listening to the same thing, the DM can make a single 1d20 roll and use it for all the listeners' skill checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Move Silently (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character's Move Sile
ntly check is opposed by the Listen check of anyone who might hear the character. The character can move up to one-half the character's normal speed at no penalty. At more than one-half and up to the character's full speed, the character suffers a 
\endash 5 penalty. It's practically impossible (\endash 20 penalty) to move silently while running or charging.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Open Lock (DEX; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par The effort requires at least a simple tool of the appropriate sort (a pick, pry bar, blank key, wire, etc.). Attempting an Open Lock check without a set of thieves' tools carries a \endash 
2 circumstance penalty, even if a simple tool is employed. The use of masterwork thieves' tools enables the character to make the check with a +2 circumstance bonus.
\par Check: Opening a lock entails 1 round of work and a successful check. (It is a full-round action.)
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Lock\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Very simple lock\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Average lock\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25
\par Good lock\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 30
\par Amazing Lock\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 40
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 
Perform (CHA)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Possible Perform types include ballad, buffoonery, chant, comedy, dance, drama, drums, epic, flute, harp, juggling, limericks, lute, mandolin, melody, mime, ode, pan pipes, recorder, shalm, storytelling, and trumpet. The character is capable of one form o
f performance per rank.
\par Check: The character can impress audiences with talent and skill.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Performance
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ -----------
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ Routine performance. Trying to earn money by playing in public is essentially begging.
\par \tab The character earns 1d10 cp/day.
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Enjoyable performance. In a prosperous city, the character can earn 1d10 sp/day.
\par 20\~\~\~\~\~ Great performance. In a prosperous city, the character can earn 3d10 sp/day. 
\par \tab With time, the character may be invited to join a professional troupe and may develop a regional reputation.
\par 25\~\~\~\~\~ Memorable performance. In a prosperous city, the character can earn 1d6 gp/day. 
\par \tab With time, the character may come to the attention of noble patrons and develop a national reputation.
\par 30\~\~\~\~\~ Extraordinary performance. In a prosperous city, the character can earn 3d6 gp/day. 
\par \tab With time, the character may draw attention from distant potential patrons or even from extraplanar beings.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
A masterwork musical instrument gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Perform checks that involve the use of the instrument.
\par Retry: Retries are allowed, but they don't negate previous failures, and an audience that has been unimpressed in the past is going to be prejudiced against future performances. (Increase the DC by 2 for each previous failure.)
\par In addition to using the Perform skill, a character could entertain people with tumbling, tightrope walking, and spells (especially illusions).
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Pick Pocket (DEX; TRAINED ONLY; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: A check against DC 10 lets the character palm a coin-sized, unattended object. Minor feats of legerdemain, such as making a coin disappear, are also DC 10 unless an observer is determined to note where the item went.
\par When performing this skill under close observation, the character's skill check is opposed by the observer's Spot check. The observer's check doesn't prevent the character from performing the action, just from doing it unnoticed.
\par If the character tries to take something from another creature, the character must make a skill check against D
C 20. The opponent makes a Spot check to detect the attempt. The opponent detects the attempt if her check result beats the character's check result, regardless of whether the character got the item.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Task
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ ----
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ Palm a coin-sized object, make a coin disappear
\par 20\~\~\~\~\~ Lift a small object from a person
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Retry: A second Pick Pocket attempt against the same target, or when being watched by the same observer, has a DC +10 higher than the first skill check if the first check failed or if the attempt was noticed.
\par Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks in Bluff, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Pick Pocket checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Profession (WIS; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par The character is trained in a livelihood or a professional role, such as apothecary, boater, bookkeeper, brewer, cook, driver, farmer, fisher, guide, herbalist, herdsman, innkeeper, lumberjack, miller, miner, porter, rancher, sailor, scribe, siege enginee
r, stablehand, tanner, teamster, woodcutter, and so forth.
\par Like Craft, Profession is actually a number of separate skills. The character could have several Profession skills, each with its own ranks, each purchased as a separate skill.
\par While a Craft skill r
epresents skill in creating or making an item, a Profession skill represents an aptitude in a vocation requiring a broader range of less specific knowledge. To draw a modern analogy, if an occupation is a service industry, it's probably a Profession skill
. If it's in the manufacturing sector, it's probably a Craft skill.
\par Check: The character can practice a trade and make a decent living, earning about half the check result in gold pieces per week of dedicated work. The character knows how to use the tools o
f the trade, how to perform the profession's daily tasks, how to supervise untrained helpers, and how to handle common problems. For example, a sailor knows how to tie several basic knots, how to tend and repair sails, and how to stand a deck watch at sea
. The DM sets DCs for specialized tasks. 
\par Retry: An attempt to use a Profession skill to earn an income cannot be retried. The character is stuck with whatever weekly wage the check result brought the character. (Another check may be made after a week to de
termine a new income for the next period of time.) An attempt to accomplish some specific task can usually be retried.
\par Special: Untrained laborers and assistants earn an average of 1 silver piece per day.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Read Lips (INT; TRAINED ONLY; ROGUE ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: Th
e character must be within 30 feet of the speaker and be able to see her speak. The character must be able to understand the speaker's language. (Use of this skill is language-dependent.) The base DC is 15, and it is higher for complex speech or an inarti
c
ulate speaker. The character has to concentrate on reading lips for a full minute before making the skill check, and the character can't perform some other action during this minute. The character can move at half speed but not any faster, and the charact
er must maintain a line of sight to the lips being read. If the check succeeds, the character can understand the general content of a minute's worth of speaking, but the character usually still misses certain details.
\par If the check fails, the character can't read the speaker's lips. If the check fails by 5 or more, the character draws some incorrect conclusion about the speech.
\par The DM rolls the character's check so the character don't know whether the character succeeded or missed by 5.
\par Retry: The skill can be used once per minute.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Ride (DEX)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par When the character selects this skill, choose the type of mount the character is familiar with. For this purpose, "horses" includes mules, donkeys, and ponies. If the character uses the skill with a different mount (su
ch as riding a giant lizard when the character is used to riding horses), the character's rank is reduced by 2 (but not below 0). If the character uses this skill with a very different mount (such as riding a griffon when the character is used to riding h
orses), the character's rank is reduced by 5 (but not below 0).
\par Check: Typical riding actions don't require checks. The character can saddle, mount, ride, and dismount from a mount without a problem. Mounting or dismounting is a move-equivalent action. Some tasks require checks:
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Riding Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par -----------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Guide with knees\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 5
\par Stay in saddle\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 5
\par Fight with warhorse\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par Leap\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Control Mount in Battle\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Fast mount or dismount\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20*
\par Cover\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Soft fall\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
*Armor check penalty applies.
\par Guide with Knees: the character can react instantly to guide the character's mount with the character's knees so that th
e character can use both hands in combat. Make the check at the start of the character's round. If the character fails, the character can only use one hand this round because the character needs to use the other to control the character's mount.
\par Stay in Saddle: The character can react instantly to try to avoid falling when the character's mount rears or bolts unexpectedly or when the character takes damage.
\par Fight with Warhorse: If the character directs a war-trained mount to attack in battle, the character can still make the character's own attack or attacks normally.
\par Cover: The character can react instantly to drop down and hang alongside the mount, using it as one-half cover. The character can't attack or cast spells while using the character's mount as co
ver. If the character fails, the character doesn't get the cover benefit.
\par Soft Fall: The character reacts instantly to try to take no damage when the character falls off a mount, such as when it is killed or when it falls. If the character fails, the character takes 1d6 points of falling damage.
\par Leap: The character can get a mount to leap obstacles as part of its movement. Use the character's Ride skill modifier or the mount's Jump skill modifier (whichever is lo
wer) to see how far the mount can jump. The DC (15) is what the character needs to roll to stay on the mount when it leaps.
\par Control Mount in Battle: As a move-equivalent action, the character can attempt to control a light horse, pony, or heavy horse while
 in combat. If the character fails, the character can do nothing else that round. The character does not need to roll for warhorses or warponies.
\par Fast Mount or Dismount: The character can mount or dismount as a free action. If the character fails the check
, mounting or dismounting is a move-equivalent action. (The character can't attempt a fast mount or dismount unless the character can perform the mount or dismount as a move-equivalent action this round.)
\par Special: If the character is riding bareback, the character suffers a \endash 5 penalty on Ride checks.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Handle Animal, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus to Ride checks.
\par If the character's mount has a military saddle, it gives a +2 circumstance bonus to Ride checks related to staying in the saddle.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Scry (INT; BARD, CLERIC, DRUID, SORCERER, WIZARD ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character can't use this skill without some magical means to scry. Use of this skill is described in association with those spells and items. These items allow t
he character to spy on others, and this skill just lets the character do it better. This skill also improves the character's chance to notice when the character is being scried, as detailed in the descriptions of the arcane eye and detect scrying spells.

\par S
pecial: Although this skill is exclusive to certain classes, it can be used untrained. This means that a character with no ranks in Scry, and who is not allowed to buy ranks in this skill, can still make an Intelligence check to notice when he is being sc
ried.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Search (INT)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character generally must be within 10 feet of the object or surface to be searched. It takes 1 round to search a 5-foot-by-5-foot area or a volume of goods 5 feet on a side; doing so is a full-round action.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par ----\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Ransack a chest full of junk to find a certain item\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par Notice a typical secret door or a simple trap\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Find a difficult nonmagical trap not of stone (rogue only)*\~ 21+
\par Find a magic trap (rogue only)*\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~                25+ spell level used to create
\par Notice a well-hidden secret door\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 30
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
*Dwarves who are not rogues can use Search to do this if the trap is built into or out of stone.
\par Active Abjuration spells within 10 feet of each other for 24 hours or more create barely visible energy fluctuations. These fluctuations give characters a +4 bonus to Search checks to locate such Abjuration spells.
\par While anyone can use Search to find a trap whose DC is 20 or less, only a rogue can use Search to locate traps with higher DCs. Finding a nonmagical trap has a DC of at least 20, and the DC is higher if it is well hidden. Finding a magic trap has a DC 
of 25 plus the level of the spell used to create it. Identifying the location of a snare spell has a DC of 23.
\par Special: A character who does not have the Track feat can use the Search skill to find tracks, but can only follow tracks if the DC is 10 or less.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Sense Motive (WIS)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: A successful check allows the character to avoid being bluffed. The character can also use the skill to tell when something is up (something odd is going on that the character were unaware of) or to assess someone's trustwort
hiness. Trying to gain information with this skill takes at least 1 minute, and the character could spend a whole evening trying to get a sense of the people around the character.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Sense Motive Task\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ DC
\par -----------------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Hunch\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par Sense enchantment\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 25
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Hunch: This use of the skill essentially means making a 
gut assessment of the social situation. The character can get the feeling from another's behavior that something is wrong, such as when the character is talking to an impostor. Alternatively, the character can get the feeling that someone is trustworthy.

\par Sense Enchantment: The character can tell that someone's behavior is being influenced by an Enchantment effect (by definition, a mind-affecting effect), such as charm person, even if that person isn't aware of it herself.
\par Retry: No, though the character may make a Sense Motive check for each bluff made on the character.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Speak Language (NONE; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par The Speak Language skill doesn't work like a standard skill.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid6912711 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fcs1 
\af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 The character starts at 1st level knowing one or two languages (according to the characte
r's race) plus an additional number of languages equal to the character's Intelligence bonus.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid6912711 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Instead of buying a rank in Speak Language, the character chooses a new language that the character can speak.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid6912711 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}The character doesn't make Speak Language checks. The character either knows a language or the character doesn't.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \f3\fs20\insrsid6912711 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}
A literate character (anyone but a barbarian) can read and write any language she speaks. Each language has an alphabet (though sometimes several spoken languages share a single alphabet).
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Common languages and their alphabets are summarized in Table: Languages
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Table: Languages
\par Language\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Alphabet
\par --------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --------
\par Abyssal \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Infernal
\par Aquan\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Elven
\par Auran\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Draconic
\par Celestial\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Celestial
\par Common\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Common
\par Draconic\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Draconic
\par Druidic\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Druidic
\par Dwarven\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Elven\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Elven
\par Gnome\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Goblin\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Giant\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Gnoll\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Common
\par Halfling\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Common
\par Ignan\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Draconic
\par Infernal\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Infernal
\par Orc\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Sylvan\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Elven
\par Terran\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Dwarven
\par Undercommon\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Elven
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Retry: Not applicable. (There are no Speak Language checks to fail.)
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Spellcraft (INT; TRAINED ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character can identify spells and magic effects.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\tab \tab \tab Task
\par --\tab \tab \tab ----
\par 13\tab \tab \tab When using read magic, identify a glyph of warding.
\par 15 + spell level\tab Identify a spell being cast. (The character must see or hear the spell's verbal 
\par \tab \tab \tab or somatic components.) No retry.
\par 15 + spell level\tab Learn a spell from a spellbook or scroll. (Wizard only.) No retry for that spell 
\par \tab \tab \tab until the character gain at least 1 rank in Spellcraft (even if the character 
\par \tab \tab \tab find another source to try to learn the spell from).
\par 15 + spell level\tab Prepare a spell from a borrowed spellbook. (Wizard only.) One try per day.
\par 15 + spell level\tab When casting detect magic, determine the school of magic involved in the aura 
\par \tab \tab \tab of a single item or creature the character can see. (If the aura is not a spell 
\par \tab \tab \tab effect, the DC is 15 + half caster level.)
\par 19\tab \tab \tab When using read magic, identify a symbol.
\par 20 + spell level\tab Identify a spell that's already in place and in effect. (the character must be able 
\par \tab \tab \tab to see or detect the effects of the spell.) No retry.
\par 20 + spell level\tab Identify materials created or shaped by magic, such as noting that an iron wall 
\par \tab \tab \tab is the result of a wall of iron spell. No retry.
\par 20 + spell level\tab Decipher a written spell (such as a scroll) without using read magic. One try per day. 
\par 20\tab \tab \tab Draw a diagram to augment casting dimensional anchor on a summoned creature. Takes 10 
\par \tab \tab \tab minutes. No retry. The DM makes this check.
\par 30 or higher\tab \tab Understand a strange or unique magical effect, such as the effects of a magic stream. 
\par \tab \tab \tab No retry.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Additionally, certain spells allow the character to gain information about magic provided that the character makes a Spellcraft check as detailed in the spell description.
\par Retry: See above.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks of Use Magic Device, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus to Spellcraft checks to decipher spells on scrolls.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Spot (WIS)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The Spot skill is used primarily to detect characters
 or creatures who are hiding. Typically, Spot is opposed by the Hide check of the creature trying not to be seen. Sometimes a creature isn't intentionally hiding but is still difficult to see, so a successful Spot check is necessary to notice it.\~
\par A Spot check result of greater than 20 can generally let the character become aware of an invisible creature near the character (though the character can't actually see it).
\par Spot is also used to detect someone in disguise.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Condition\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ Penalty
\par ---------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -------
\par Per 10 feet of distance\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -1
\par Spotter distracted\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ -5
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Retry: the character can make a Spot check every time the character has the opportunity to notice something in a reactive manner. As a full-round action, the character may attempt to spot something that the character failed to spot previously.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Swim (STR)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: A successful Swim check allows the character to swim one-quarter of the character's speed as a move-equivalent act
ion or one-half the character's speed as a full-round action. Roll once per round. If the character fails, the character makes no progress through the water. If the character fails by 5 or more, the character goes underwater and starts to drown.
\par If the character is underwater (whether drowning or swimming underwater intentionally), the character suffers a cumulative \endash 1 penalty to the character's Swim check for each consecutive round the character has been underwater.
\par The DC for the Swim check depends on the water:
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Water Conditions\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~   DC
\par ----------------\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ --
\par Calm water\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 10
\par Rough water\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 15
\par Stormy water\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~ 20
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Each hour that the character swims, make a Swim check against DC 20 or take 1d6 points of subdual damage from fatigue.
\par Special: Instead of an armor check penalty, the character suffers a penalty of \endash 1 for each 5 pounds of gear the character is carrying or wearing.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Tumble (DEX; TRAINED ONLY; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par The character can't use this skill if the character's speed has been reduced by armor, excess equipment, or loot.
\par Check: The character can land softly when the character falls or tumbles past opponents. The character can also tumble to entertain an audience (as with the Perform skill).
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Task
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ ----
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Treat a fall as if it were 10 feet shorter when determining damage.
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Tumble up to 20 feet (as part of normal movement), suffering no attacks of 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ opportunity while doing so. Failure means the character tumbles 20 feet but suffers
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ attacks of opportunity normally.
\par 25\~\~\~\~\~ Tumble up to 20 feet (as part of normal movement), suffering no attacks of 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ opportunity while doing so and moving through areas occupied by enemies (over, 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ under, or around them). Failure means the character tumbles 20 feet and can move through 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ enemy-occupied areas but suffers attacks of opportunity normally.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Retry: An audience, once it has judged a t
umbler as uninteresting, is not receptive to repeat performances. The character can try to reduce damage from a fall as an instant reaction once per fall. The character can attempt to tumble as part of movement once per round.
\par Special: A character with 5 or more ranks in Tumble gains a +3 dodge AC bonus when executing the fight defensively standard or full-round action instead of a +2 dodge AC bonus.
\par A character with 5 or more ranks in Tumble gains a +6 dodge AC bonus when executing the total defense standard action instead of a +4 dodge AC bonus.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Jump, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Tumble checks.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Tumble, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Balance checks.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Use Magic Device (CHA; TRAINED ONLY; BARD, ROGUE ONLY)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character can use this skill to read a spell or to activate a magic item. This skill lets the character use a magic item as if the character had the spell ability or class features of another class
, as if the character were a different race, or as if the character were a different alignment.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 Use Magic Device Task\tab \tab DC
\par ---------------------\tab \tab --
\par Decipher a written spell\tab 25 + Spell Level
\par Emulate spell ability\tab \tab 20
\par Emulate class feature\tab \tab 20
\par Emulate ability score\tab \tab See Text
\par Emulate race\tab \tab \tab 25
\par Emulate alignment\tab \tab 30
\par Activate blindly\tab \tab 25
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
When the character is attempting to activate a magic item using this skill, the character does so as a standard action. However, the checks the character makes to determine wh
ether the character is successful at emulating the desired factors to successfully perform the activation are instant. They take no time by themselves and are included in the activate magic item standard action.
\par The character make emulation checks each tim
e the character activates a device such as a wand. If the character is using the check to emulate an alignment or some other quality in an ongoing manner, the character needs to make the relevant emulation checks once per hour.
\par The character must consciously choose what to emulate. That is, the character has to know what the character is trying to emulate when the character makes an emulation check.
\par Decipher a Written Spell: This works just like deciphering a written spell with the Spellcraft skill, except that the DC is 5 points higher.
\par Emulate Spell Ability: This use of the skill allows the character to use a magic item as if the character had a par
ticular spell on the character's class spell list. To cast a spell from a scroll or use a wand, the character has to have a particular spell on the character's class spell list. By using the skill this way, the character can use such an item as if the cha
r
acter did have the spell on the character's class spell list. The character's effective caster level is the character's result minus 20. (It's okay to have a caster level of 0.) For wands, it doesn't matter what caster level the character is, but it does 
matter for scrolls. If the character's effective level is lower than the caster level, the character must roll to see if you use the scroll successfuly.
\par This skill does not let the character cast the spell. It only lets the character cast it from a scroll or wand as if the spell were on the character's class list. Note: If the character is casting it from a scroll, the character has to decipher it first.

\par Emulate Class Feature: Sometimes the character needs to use a class feature to activate a magic item. The character's effective level in the emulated class equals the character's result minus 20.
\par This skill does not let the character use the class feature of another class. It just lets the character activate magic items as if the character had the class feature.
\par If the class whose feature the character is emulating has an alignment requirement, the character must meet it, either honestly or by emulating an appropriate alignment as a separate check (see below).
\par Emulate Ability Score: To cast a spell from a scro
ll, the character needs a high ability score in the appropriate ability (Intelligence for wizard spells, Wisdom for divine spells, and Charisma for sorcerer or bard spells). The character's effective ability score (appropriate to the class the character i
s emulating when the character tries to cast the spell from the scroll) is the character's result minus 15. If the character already has a high enough score in the appropriate ability, the character doesn't need to make this check.
\par Emulate Race: Some magic items work only for certain races, or work better for those of certain races. The character can use such an item as if the character were a race of the character's choice. The character can emulate only one race at a time.
\par Emulate Alignment: Some magic items have positive or negative effects based on the character's alignment. The character can use these items as if the character was of an alignment of the character's choice. 
\par The character can emulate only one alignment at a time.
\par Activate Blindly: Some ma
gic items are activated by special words, thoughts, or actions. The character can activate such items as if the character were using the activation word, thought, or action even if the character is not and even if the character doesn't know it. The charac
ter does have to use something equivalent. The character has to speak, wave the item around, or otherwise attempt to get it to activate. The character gets a special +2 bonus if the character has activated the item at least once before.
\par If the character fai
ls by 10 or more, the character suffers a mishap. A mishap means that magical energy gets released but it doesn't do what the character wanted it to do. The DM determines the result of a mishap, as with scroll mishaps. The default mishaps are that the ite
m
 affects the wrong target or that uncontrolled magical energy gets released, dealing 2d6 points of damage to the character. Note: This mishap is in addition to the chance for a mishap that the character normally runs when the character casts a spell from 
a scroll and the spell's caster level is higher than the character's level.
\par Retry: Yes, but if the character ever rolls a natural 1 while attempting to activate an item and the character fails, then the character can't try to activate it again for a day.
\par Special: The character cannot take 10 with this skill. Magic is too unpredictable for the character to use this skill reliably.
\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Spellcraft, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to sc
rolls. If the character has 5 or more ranks in Decipher Script, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. These bonuses stack.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Use Rope (DEX)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: Most tasks with a rope are relatively simple.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Task
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ ----
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ Tie a firm knot
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Tie a special knot, such as one that slips, slides slowly, or loosens with a 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ tug
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Tie a rope around oneself one-handed
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Splice two ropes together (takes 5 minutes)
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
When the character binds a
nother character with a rope, any Escape Artist check that the bound character makes is opposed by the character's Use Rope check. The character gets a special +10 bonus on the check because it is easier to bind someone than to escape from being tied up. 

\par The character doesn't make the character's Use Rope check until someone tries to escape.
\par Special: A silk rope gives a +2 circumstance bonus on Use Rope checks. If the character casts an animate rope spell on a rope, the character gets a +2 circumstance bonus to any Use Rope checks the character makes when using the rope. These bonuses stack.

\par If the character has 5 or more ranks in Escape Artist, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on checks to bind someone.
\par }{\fcs1 \ai\af0 \fcs0 \cs18\i\insrsid6912711 Wilderness Lore (WIS)}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
\par Check: The character can keep him or herself and others safe and fed in the wild.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 DC\~\~\~\~\~ Task
\par --\~\~\~\~\~ ----
\par 10\~\~\~\~\~ Get along in the wild. Move up to one-half the character's overland
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ speed while hunting and foraging (no food or water supplies needed). The character can 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ provide food and water for one other person for every 2 points by which the character's 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ check result exceeds 10.
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Gain +2 on all Fortitude saves against severe weather
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ while moving up to one-half the character's overland speed, or gain +4 if stationary. The character 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ may grant the same bonus to one other character for every 1 point by which the 
\par \~\~\~\~\~\~\~ check result exceeds 15.
\par 15\~\~\~\~\~ Avoid getting lost or avoid natural hazards, such as quicksand.
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Retry: For getting along in the wild or for gaining the Fortitude save bonus, the character makes a check once every 24 hours. The result of that check applies until the next check is made. To avoid getting lost or avoid natural hazards, the characte
r makes a check whenever the situation calls for one. Retries to avoid getting lost in a specific situation or to avoid a specific natural hazard are not allowed.
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1014899 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid6912711 
Special: If the character has 5 or more ranks of Intuit Direction, the character gets a +2 synergy bonus on Wilderness Lore checks to avoid getting lost.
\par }}