{\rtf1\adeflang60488\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f234\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f235\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f237\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f239\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f240\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f241\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f242\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f254\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f259\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f260\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f261\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f262\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs20 \fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 
Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}}{\*\pgptbl }{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3024660\rsid3882512\rsid4213180\rsid9119856\rsid9312444\rsid13125909}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info
{\title SRD Skills Overview}{\author Ryan S. Dancey}{\operator Ryan S. Dancey}{\creatim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr11\min52}{\revtim\yr2001\mo11\dy5\hr12\min10}{\version5}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1343}{\nofchars7661}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws8987}
{\vern16443}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind5\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\allowfieldendsel\rsidroot3882512 \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9119856 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 
\cf1\insrsid9119856\charrsid7944039 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid9119856\charrsid7944039 
\par }\pard \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 SKILL POINTS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Characters have a number of skill points based on their race and their class levels.
\par Depending on a characters' race and class, some skills are "class skills" and some skills are "cross-class skills" Cross-class skills require 2 skill points per rank, class skills require 1 skill point per rank.
\par The maximum number of ranks a character can have in a class skill is equal to that character's level +3. The maximum ranks a character can have in a cross-class skill is half that number.
\par Starting skill points for the basic character classes are:
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af2\afs20\alang60488 \fcs0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af2 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 Character\tab \tab 1st level\tab \tab \tab Higher-level
\par Class\tab \tab \tab Skill Points\tab \tab \tab Skill Points
\par ---------\tab \tab ------------\tab \tab \tab ------------
\par Adept\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Aristocrat\tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Arcane Archer\tab \tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Assassin\tab \tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Barbarian\tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Bard\tab \tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Blackguard\tab \tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Cleric\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Commoner\tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Druid\tab \tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Dwarven Defender\tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Expert\tab \tab \tab (6 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 6 + Int Modifier
\par Fighter\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Loremaster\tab \tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Monk\tab \tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Paladin\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Ranger\tab \tab \tab (4 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 4 + Int Modifier
\par Rogue\tab \tab \tab (8 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 8 + Int Modifier
\par Shadowdancer\tab \tab N/A\tab \tab \tab \tab 6 + Int Modifier
\par Sorcerer\tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Warrior\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par Wizard\tab \tab \tab (2 + Int Modifier) x 4\tab \tab 2 + Int Modifier
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang60488 \fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 
USING SKILLS}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par When the character uses a skill, the character makes a skill check to see how well the character does. The higher the result on the character's skill check, the better the character does. Based on the circumstances, the
 character's result must match or beat a particular number to use the skill successfully. The harder the task, the higher the number the character needs to roll.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Skill Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par To make a skill check, roll 1d20 and add the character's skill modifier for that 
skill. The skill modifier incorporates the character's rank with that skill, the character's ability modifier for that skill's key ability, and any other miscellaneous modifiers the character has, including racial bonuses and any armor check penalty. The 
higher the result, the better. A natural 20 is not an automatic success, and a natural 1 is not an automatic failure.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 VS. A Difficulty Class}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Some checks are made against a Difficulty Class (DC). The DC is a number that the character must score as a result on the character's skill check to succeed.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 VS. Opposed Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Some skill checks are opposed checks. They are made against a randomized number, which is usually another character's skill check result. Whoever gets the higher result wins the contest.
\par For ties on opposed checks, the character with the higher key ability score wins.
\par If these scores are the same, flip a coin.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Retries}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par In general, the character can try a skill check again if the character fails, and can keep trying indefinitely. Some skills, howeve
r, have consequences of failure that must be taken into account. Some skills are virtually useless once a check has failed on an attempt to accomplish a particular task. For most skills, when a character has succeeded once at a given task, additional succ
esses are meaningless.
\par If a skill carries no penalties for failure, the character can take 20 and assume that the character goes at it long enough to succeed eventually.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Untrained Skill Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Generally, if the character attempts to use a skill the character doesn't possess, the character makes a skill check as normal. The character's skill modifier doesn't have the character's skill rank added in because the character doesn't have any ranks in
 the skill. The character does get other modifiers added into the skill modifier, though, such as the ability modifier for the skill's key ability.
\par Many skills can only be used if the character is trained in the skill. Skills that cannot be used untrained are marked with a "No" in the "Untrained" column on Table: Skills.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Favorable and Unfavorable Conditions}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Some situations may make a skill easier or harder to use, resulting in a bonus or penalty added into the skill modifier for the skill check or a change to the DC of the skill check.
\par The DM can alter the odds of success in four ways to take into account exceptional circumstances:
\par 1. Give the skill user a +2 circumstance bonus to represent circumstances that improve performance.
\par 2. Give the skill user a \endash 2 circumstance penalty to represent conditions that hamper performance.
\par 3. Reduce the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make the task easier.
\par 4. Increase the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make the task harder.
\par A bonus to the character's skill modifier and a reduction in the check's DC have the same result: they create a better chance that the character will succeed. But they represent different circumstances, and sometimes that difference is important.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Time and Skill Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Using a skill mig
ht take a round, take no time, or take several rounds or even longer. Most skill uses are standard actions, move-equivalent actions, or full-round actions. Types of actions define how long activities take to perform within the framework of a combat round 
(
6 seconds) and how movement is treated with respect to the activity. Some skill checks are instant and represent reactions to an event, or are included as part of an action. These skill checks are not actions. Other skill checks represent part of movement
. The distance the character jumps when making a Jump check, for example, is part of the character's movement. Some skills take more than a round to use, and the skill descriptions often specify how long these skills take to use. 
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Practically Impossible Tasks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par In general, to do something that's practically impossible requires that the character have at least rank 10 in the skill and entails a penalty of \endash 20 on the character's roll or +20 on the DC (which amounts to about the same thing).
\par Practically impossible tasks are hard to delineate ahead of time. They're the accomplishments that represent incredible, almost logic-defying skill and luck.
\par The DM decides what is actually impossible and what is merely practically impossible.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Extraordinary Success}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par If the character has at least rank 10 in a skill and beats the DC by 20 or more on a normal skill check, the character has completed the task impossibly well.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Checks without Rolls}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Taking 10: When the character is not in a rush and is not being threatened or distracted, the character may choose to take 10. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the skill check, calculate the character's result as if the character had rolled a 10.
\par Taking 20: When the character has plenty of time (generally 2 minutes for a skill that can normally b
e checked in 1 round, one full-round action, or one standard action), and when the skill being attempted carries no penalties for failure, the character can take 20. 
\par Instead of rolling 1d20 for the skill check, calculate the character's result as if the c
haracter had rolled a 20. Taking 20 means the character is trying until the character gets it right. Taking 20 takes about twenty times as long as making a single check would take.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Combining Skill Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par When more than one character tries the same skill at the same time and for the same purpose, their efforts may overlap.
\par Individual Events: Often, several characters attempt some action and each succeeds or fails on her own.
\par Helping the Leader: Sometimes the individual PCs are essentially reacting to the sam
e situation, but they can work together and help each other out. In this case, one character is considered the leader of the effort and makes a skill check while each helper makes a skill check against DC 10. (the character can't take 10 on this check.) F
o
r each helper who succeeds, the leader gets a +2 circumstance bonus (as per the rule for favorable conditions). In many cases, a character's help won't be beneficial, or only a limited number of characters can help at once. The DM limits cooperation as sh
e sees fit for the given conditions.
\par Skill Synergy: It's also possible for a character to have two skills that work well together. In general, having 5 or more ranks in one skill gives the character a +2 synergy bonus on skill checks with its synergistic sk
ills, as noted in the skill description.
\par }{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \ul\insrsid13125909 Ability Checks}{\fcs1 \af0 \fcs0 \insrsid13125909 
\par Sometimes the character tries to do something to which no specific skill really applies. In these cases, the character makes an ability check. An ability check is the roll of 1d20 plus the appropriate
 ability modifier. Essentially, the character is making an untrained skill check. The DM assigns a Difficulty Class.
\par }}