{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title magic is an ancient tradition, and}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy6\hr10\min38}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr15\min5}{\version36}{\edmins45}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords11293}{\nofchars64372}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws79053}{\vern8223}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace163
\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ADDITIONAL SPELLS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 ARCANE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The following spells may be cast by arcane spellcasters.
\par Spells printed in }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 bold italic }{\fs20\cf0 text can be found under Spells.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Casting Spells through Email
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any spell that can be scribed onto a scroll can likewise be saved in electronic format\emdash as email. In order to accomplish this, the caster must have the Scribe Scroll ability and a minimum of 8 ranks in Computer Use.
\par All the spellcaster needs is a computer with Internet acc
ess and the usual components necessary to cast the spell. First she writes the email, which takes one minute per level of the spell. At the end of that time, the spellcaster must cast the spell and succeed at a Computer Use check (DC 15 + spell level). If
 the check fails, the email is not correctly typed, the spell is ruined, and the spellcaster must begin anew. If the check succeeds, the email carries the spell through cyberspace and delivers it to the mailbox of the target.
\par A spellcaster casting a spell through email must expend XP as if scribing a scroll.
\par There are several rules and restrictions pertaining to spells sent through email:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 The target of the spell is always the person who first opens the email. Any target with 10 or more ranks in Compu
ter Use, Knowledge (arcane lore or technology), or Spellcraft receives a +5 competence bonus to any saving throws required by the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 No Spam: }{\fs20\cf0 The email may only be sent to a single account. If you put more than one address in the \'93Recipient\'94 line, the spell is ruined and wasted.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Subject Line: }{\fs20\cf0 The spell\rquote s name must be typed into the \'93Subject\'94
 line of the email. One can attempt to disguise the name by writing it in an obscure language, an illegible font, or burying it in the middle of a larger phrase.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 All spells begin immediately upon the email being opened. It is not possible for a spellcaster to save the power from an email spell and discharge it later.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undeliverable: }{\fs20\cf0 If the email
 is not opened within 72 hours, it becomes undeliverable. The account that sent the original email will receive an email notification of this. If the target opens the email after 72 hours have elapsed, the body of the message will be blank.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 0-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcane Graffiti. }{\fs20\cf0 Inscribes personal rune or short message on object or surface.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Daze. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject takes no actions for 1 round.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Detect Magical Aura. }{\fs20\cf0 Detects spells and magic items within 60 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Haywire. }{\fs20\cf0 Causes a single device to behave randomly and erratically.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Light. }{\fs20\cf0 Object shines like a torch. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Mage Hand. }{\fs20\cf0 5-pound telekinesis.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic ID. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates a false but visually accurate identification card.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending. }{\fs20\cf0 Repairs small breaks or tears in objects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Message. }{\fs20\cf0 Whispered conversation at distance.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Prestidigitation. }{\fs20\cf0 Perform minor tricks.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Read Magic. }{\fs20\cf0 Read scrolls, spellbooks, and magical writing.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Resistance. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 1st-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Burning Hands. }{\fs20\cf0 1d4 fire damage/ level (max 5d4).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cause Fear. }{\fs20\cf0 One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Change Self. }{\fs20\cf0 Changes your appearance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clean. }{\fs20\cf0 Eliminates grime, dirt, and bacterial contaminants from the target, and renders target scentless.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Comprehend Languages. }{\fs20\cf0 Understands all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dancing Lights. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates up to four lights or a glowing, vaguely humanoid shape.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Degauss. }{\fs20\cf0 Erase a single device that contains electronic data.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Feather Fall. }{\fs20\cf0 Objects or creatures fall slowly.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Hold Portal. }{\fs20\cf0 Holds door shut.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instant Identify. }{\fs20\cf0 Determines all magic properties of a single magic item.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Jump. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Mage Armor. }{\fs20\cf0 Gives subject +4 Defense bonus.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Missile. }{\fs20\cf0 1d4+1 damage; +1 missile/two levels above 1st (max 5).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon. }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mask Metal. }{\fs20\cf0 Renders a metal object undetectable to metal detectors.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscuring Mist. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates cloud of vapor that obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Power Device. }{\fs20\cf0 Powers one inoperative electrical or mechanical device.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Ray of Fatigue. }{\fs20\cf0 Ray fatigues target.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Shield. }{\fs20\cf0 Invisible disc gives cover, blocks magic missiles. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Sleep. }{\fs20\cf0 Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor I. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 1st-level vivilor from Shadow to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trace Purge. }{\fs20\cf0 Removes physical traces of the subject\rquote s presence or passage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 True Strike. }{\fs20\cf0 Adds +20 bonus to your next attack roll.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undetectable Magical Aura. }{\fs20\cf0 Masks a magic item\rquote s aura from detection.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 2nd-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Lock. }{\fs20\cf0 Magically locks a portal or chest.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Blur. }{\fs20\cf0 Attacks miss subject 20% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Burglar\rquote s Buddy. }{\fs20\cf0 Suppresses mechanic or electronic intrusion alarms and alarm sensors within a 15-foot radius.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Darkvision. }{\fs20\cf0 See 60 feet in total darkness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dataread. }{\fs20\cf0 You can access and read data stored in any machine-readable data source.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Enhance Ability. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Glitterdust. }{\fs20\cf0 Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Knock. }{\fs20\cf0 Opens locked or magically sealed door.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Levitate. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject moves up and down at your direction.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Locate Object. }{\fs20\cf0 Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Machine Invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 One creature or object cannot be detected by machines.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Message. }{\fs20\cf0 Device delivers a message of 25 words or less when specific conditions are met.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Mouth. }{\fs20\cf0 Speaks once when triggered.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Protection from Arrows/Bullets. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject immune to most ranged attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Relay Text. }{\fs20\cf0 You can transmit a message of up to 25 words via electronic device to someone you know.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy. }{\fs20\cf0 Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 See Invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Spider Climb. }{\fs20\cf0 Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor II. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 2nd-level vivilor or 1d3 1st-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Web. }{\fs20\cf0 Fills 20-foot-radius spread with sticky spider webs.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 3rd-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic. }{\fs20\cf0 Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Displacement. }{\fs20\cf0 Attacks miss subject 50% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Electromagnetic Pulse. }{\fs20\cf0 Ruins or scrambles electronic circuitry in a 20-foot-radius burst.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fireball. }{\fs20\cf0 1d6 damage per level, 20-foot radius.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Flaming Projectiles. }{\fs20\cf0 Projectiles deal +1d6 fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gaseous Form. }{\fs20\cf0 Turns subject into translucent mist or wispy smoke and grants damage reduction 10/+1.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Greater Magic Weapon. }{\fs20\cf0 +1/three levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Halt Undead. }{\fs20\cf0 Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Haste. }{\fs20\cf0 Extra attack action, additional move, and +2 Defense.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Hold Person. }{\fs20\cf0 Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Arcane Lock. }{\fs20\cf0 Closes and locks all specifically targeted doors within range.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Invisibility Sphere. }{\fs20\cf0 Makes everyone within 10 feet invisible.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Keen Edge. }{\fs20\cf0 Doubles normal weapon\rquote s threat range.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Lightning Bolt. }{\fs20\cf0 Electricity deals 1d6 damage/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nondetection. }{\fs20\cf0 Creature or object becomes difficult to detect by divination and detection spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Chopper. }{\fs20\cf0 Conjures a quasi-real motorcycle that seats one creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Pocket. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates extradimensional space within a pocket on a garment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shutdown. }{\fs20\cf0 Electric devices in area cease to function for the duration of the spell.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Slow. }{\fs20\cf0 One subject/level may only move or attack; \endash 2 to Defense, \endash 2 on melee attack and damage rolls, \endash 2 on Reflex saves.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor III. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 3rd-level vivilor, 1d3 2ndlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 1st-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Tongues. }{\fs20\cf0 Speak any language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vampiric Touch. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch deals 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels; caster gains damage as temporary hit points.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall Walk. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject can move on ceilings and walls at normal speed as well as hold and wield weapons.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Water Breathing. }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 4th-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Animate Dead. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Eye. }{\fs20\cf0 Invisible floating eye moves 30 feet/round.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bestow Curse. }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 6 to an ability; \endash 4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of taking no action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clown Car. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates extradimensional space within enclosed vehicle that holds one passenger per caster level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Confusion. }{\fs20\cf0 Makes subject behave oddly for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detect Scrying. }{\fs20\cf0 You are aware of any attempt to scry on you and can sense the presence of scrying devices.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Dimension Door. }{\fs20\cf0 Teleports you and up to 50 lb./level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Energy Trap. }{\fs20\cf0 Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage of given energy type.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fear. }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Ice Storm. }{\fs20\cf0 Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 feet across.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Bullets. }{\fs20\cf0 Enchants bullets with the power to knock out or panic targets.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Minor Globe of Invulnerability. }{\fs20\cf0 Stops 1st- through 3rdlevel spell effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantasmal Killer. }{\fs20\cf0 Fearsome illusion kills subject or deals 3d6 points of damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse. }{\fs20\cf0 Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying. }{\fs20\cf0 Spies on subject from a distance.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Shout. }{\fs20\cf0 Deafens all within cone and deals 2d6 damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Stoneskin. }{\fs20\cf0 Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor IV. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 4th-level vivilor, 1d3 3rdlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 2nd-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Via Negativa. }{\fs20\cf0 Crackling energy deals 4d6 points of damage per round to grappled foe; +5 bonus to grapple checks.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Fire. }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 feet and 1d4 out to 20 feet. Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Ice. }{\fs20\cf0 Ice plane creates wall with 15 hp +1/level, or hemisphere can trap creatures inside.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wire Walk. }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects teleport instantly to the location of a telephone you call.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 5th-level Arcane Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cloudkill. }{\fs20\cf0 Kills 3 HD or less; 4\endash 6 HD save or die.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cone of Cold. }{\fs20\cf0 1d6 cold damage/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Hold Monster. }{\fs20\cf0 As hold person, but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instant Connectivity. }{\fs20\cf0 Instantly transport one or more creatures through the Internet using instant-message software.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Passwall. }{\fs20\cf0 Breaches walls 1 foot thick/level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Limousine. }{\fs20\cf0 Conjures a quasi-real limousine that seats eight Medium creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Phantom Projectiles. }{\fs20\cf0 Projectiles pass through obstacles and armor and ignore most damage reduction.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Phantom Watchdog. }{\fs20\cf0 Spectral dog can guard or attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Vault. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates extradimensional space in which to hide a container, which you can retrieve at will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seeming. }{\fs20\cf0 Changes the appearance of one creature per two levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor V. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 5th-level vivilor, 1d3 4thlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 3rd-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Synchronicity. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject isn\rquote t delayed by the inconveniences of modern life.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Telekinesis. }{\fs20\cf0 Lifts or moves 25 lb./level at long range.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Force. }{\fs20\cf0 Wall is immune to damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Iron. }{\fs20\cf0 30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Stone. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 DIVINE SPELLS
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The following spells may be cast by divine spellcasters. 
\par Spells printed in }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 bold italic }{\fs20\cf0 text can be found under Spells.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 0-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Create Water. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure Minor Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Detect Magical Aura. }{\fs20\cf0 Detects spells, magic items within 60 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Haywire. }{\fs20\cf0 Causes a single device to behave randomly and erratically.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Minor Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch attack, 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Light. }{\fs20\cf0 Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mending. }{\fs20\cf0 Repairs small breaks or tears in objects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Read Magic. }{\fs20\cf0 Read scrolls and magical writing.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Resistance. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Virtue. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains 1 temporary hp.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 1st-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bane. }{\fs20\cf0 Enemies suffer \endash 1 attack, \endash 1 on saves against fear.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bless. }{\fs20\cf0 Allies gain +1 attack and +1 on saves against fear.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cause Fear. }{\fs20\cf0 One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clean. }{\fs20\cf0 Eliminates grime, dirt, and bacterial contaminants from the target, and renders target scentless.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Command. }{\fs20\cf0 One subject obeys one-word command for 1 round.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Comprehend Languages. }{\fs20\cf0 Understand all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure Light Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Degauss. }{\fs20\cf0 Erases a single device that contains electronic data.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Faerie Fire. }{\fs20\cf0 Pale glow surrounds and outlines creatures and objects in a 5-foot-radius burst.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Light Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch, 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instant Identify. }{\fs20\cf0 Determines all magic properties of a single magic item.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Weapon. }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Obscuring Mist. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates cloud of vapor that obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Remove Fear. }{\fs20\cf0 +4 on saves against fear for one subject + one additional subject/four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sanctuary. }{\fs20\cf0 Opponents can\rquote t attack you, and you can\rquote t attack them.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Shield of Faith. }{\fs20\cf0 Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor I. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 1st-level vivilor from Shadow to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trace Purge. }{\fs20\cf0 Removes physical traces of the subject\rquote s presence or passage.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 2nd-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Aid. }{\fs20\cf0 +1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hit points.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Augury. }{\fs20\cf0 Learn whether an action will be good or bad.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure Moderate Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkness. }{\fs20\cf0 Causes an object to radiate darkness out to a 20-foot radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dataread. }{\fs20\cf0 You can access and read data stored in any machine-readable data source.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Daylight. }{\fs20\cf0 Object touched sheds light as bright as full daylight in a 60-foot radius.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Delay Poison. }{\fs20\cf0 Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Enhance Ability. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Hold Person. }{\fs20\cf0 Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Moderate Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch attack, 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Lesser Restoration. }{\fs20\cf0 Dispels magic ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Remove Paralysis. }{\fs20\cf0 Frees one or more creatures from paralysis, hold, or slow.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Resist Energy. }{\fs20\cf0 Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shatter. }{\fs20\cf0 Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shield Other. }{\fs20\cf0 You take half of the subject\rquote s damage. Subject gains +1 deflection bonus to Defense and +1 resistance bonus to saves.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Silence. }{\fs20\cf0 Negates sound in 15-foot radius.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speak with Animals. }{\fs20\cf0 You can comprehend and communicate with animals.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Spider Climb. }{\fs20\cf0 Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor II. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 2nd-level vivilor or 1d3 1st-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Zone of Truth. }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects within range cannot lie. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 3rd-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Animate Dead. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Bestow Curse. }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 6 to an ability; \endash 4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure Serious Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel Magic. }{\fs20\cf0 Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Glyph of Warding. }{\fs20\cf0 Inscription harms those who pass it.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Serious Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch attack, 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Locate Object. }{\fs20\cf0 Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Circle. }{\fs20\cf0 10-foot-radius area grants +2 bonus to Defense and saves, counters mind control, and hedges out summoned and conjured creatures of specified allegiance. 
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Prayer. }{\fs20\cf0 Allies gain +1 on most rolls, and enemies suffer \endash 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Recharge. }{\fs20\cf0 Removes debilitating conditions and grants a +4 bonus on Fortitude saves against poison for 1 minute.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Remove Curse. }{\fs20\cf0 Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Remove Disease. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures all diseases affecting subject.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Searing Light. }{\fs20\cf0 Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secret Pocket. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates extradimensional space within a pocket on a garment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadowmoth Plague. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a cloud of shadowmoths that fills a 5-foot-high, 10-foot-radius spread.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shutdown. }{\fs20\cf0 Electric devices in area cease to function for the duration of the spell.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Status. }{\fs20\cf0 Monitors condition and position of one ally per 3 caster levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor III. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 3rd-level vivilor, 1d3 2ndlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 1st-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vampiric Touch. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch deals 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels; caster gains damage as temporary hit points.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Water Breathing. }{\fs20\cf0 Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 4th-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crawling Carpet. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 10-foot-radius carpet of monstrous centipedes, scarab beetles, or spiders.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Cure Critical Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Discern Lies. }{\fs20\cf0 Reveals deliberate falsehoods.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Divination. }{\fs20\cf0 Provides useful (if cryptic) advice to a single question.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Faith\rquote s Fury. }{\fs20\cf0 Damages and blinds creatures with a specific allegiance.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Freedom of Movement. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Greater Magic Weapon. }{\fs20\cf0 +1 bonus/three levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict Critical Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Touch attack, 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Bullets. }{\fs20\cf0 Enchants bullets with the power to }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure light wounds }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Neutralize Poison. }{\fs20\cf0 Detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Restoration. }{\fs20\cf0 Restores level and ability score drains.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Immunity. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject is immune to one spell per four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor IV. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 4th-level vivilor, 1d3 3rdlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 2nd-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Tongues. }{\fs20\cf0 Speak any language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Via Negativa. }{\fs20\cf0 Crackling energy deals 4d6 points of damage per round to grappled foe; +5 bonus to grapple checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall Walk. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject can move on ceilings and walls at normal speed as well as hold and wield weapons.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 5th-level Divine Spells
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Break Enchantment. }{\fs20\cf0 Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Flaming Wrath. }{\fs20\cf0 Smites foes with fire (1d6/level).
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Greater Command. }{\fs20\cf0 As }{\i\fs20\cf0 command}{\fs20\cf0 , but affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Insect Plague. }{\fs20\cf0 Insect horde limits vision, inflicts damage, and weak creatures flee.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Mass Cure Light Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Cures 1d8 +1/level damage for many creatures.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Mass Inflict Light Wounds. }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 1d8 +1/level damage to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage of Bees. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons 1d3 swarms of sentient killer bees to fight for you.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Raise Dead. }{\fs20\cf0 Restores life to subject who died up to 1 day/level ago.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scrying. }{\fs20\cf0 Spies on subject from a distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject gains spell resistance 12 + your caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Summon Vivilor V. }{\fs20\cf0 Summons a 5th-level vivilor, 1d3 4thlevel vivilors, or 1d4+1 3rd-level vivilors to fight for you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Synchronicity. }{\fs20\cf0 Subject isn\rquote t delayed by the inconveniences of modern life.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 True Seeing. }{\fs20\cf0 See all things as they really are.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Wall of Stone. }{\fs20\cf0 Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Spell Descriptions
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The spells herein are presented in alphabetical order.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Arcane Graffiti
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 0; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 0 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One personal rune or short message; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This spell allows you to inscribe your personal rune or a short message, which can be no larger than 2 feet tall and consist of no more than six words, on a nonliving creature or object. The writing can be visible or invisible. An }{\i\fs20\cf0 
arcane graffiti }{\fs20\cf0 spell enables you to etch the words upon any substance (even stone or me
tal) without harming the material upon which the mark is placed. If invisible graffiti is made, the casting of any spell or use of any spell-like ability within 30 feet causes the words to become visible for 5 rounds.
\par The mark cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed by the caster or with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 clean }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Burglar\rquote s Buddy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 
15-ft.-radius emanation centered on a creature, object, or point in space; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None and Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 
Yes and no (object)
\par This spell suppresses all mechanical or electronic intrusion alarms and alarm sensors in the affected area. Burglar alarms or other intrusi
on alarms within the affected area simply fail to function; sensors for intrusion alarm systems (such as motion detectors, IR detectors, pressure sensors, electric eyes, and so forth) also fail to function, sending no signal to monitoring stations. Video 
surveillance devices continue to send whatever image they were photographing the moment when the spell was cast.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A camera lens cover.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Clean
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Full-round action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{
\fs20\cf0 One creature, object of up to 1,000 lb./level, or room of up to 100 square feet/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Fortitude negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{
\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 clean }{\fs20\cf0 spell completely eliminates grime, dirt, and bacterial
\par contaminants from the target. Smooth surfaces gain a faint
\par shine, as if they had been polished.
\par If cast on a room or object, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 clean }{\fs20\cf0 spell destroys dirt, dust, and anything else that would ordinarily
 be wiped away with a thorough mundane cleaning. The room or object retains no fingerprints, and even the smallest hairs, skin cells, and garment fibers are cleaned away\emdash rendering most evidence collection impossible, for example.
\par If cast on a creature, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 clean }{\fs20\cf0 spell disinfects wounds (doubling the natural healing rate for that day) and renders the creature scentless for 1 minute. This means that creatures with the scent extraordinary ability won\rquote 
t be able to detect the subject by scent alone.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Bar of soap.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Clown Car
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 0 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
Extradimensional space within an enclosed vehicle capable of holding one creature per caster level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You create a temporary extradimensional space within an enclosed passenger compartment of a vehicle. The spell cannot be cast on vehicles without enclosed passenger compartments, such as motorcycles. The ext
radimensional space allows the vehicle to hold a number of additional passengers equal to the caster\rquote 
s level. A passenger may be up to Large size and can bring up to a medium load into the extradimensional space; creatures with more than a medium load cannot enter the extradimensional space.
\par Creatures that enter the extradimensional space cannot interact with anything outside of the vehicle, nor can creatures outside the vehicle perceive or interact with the occupants and contents of the extradimensional sp
ace (or even see the extradimensional space itself). Creatures within the extradimensional space effectively occupy the same 5-footsquare and are incapable of making attacks while so contained.
\par Exiting the extradimensional space requires the passengers to 
physically exit the vehicle as well. If the vehicle is destroyed or the extradimensional space is successfully dispelled, the extradimensional space collapses. Any creatures or objects within the extradimensional space are ejected before the space implode
s. Ejected creatures fall prone in squares adjacent to the vehicle.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A klaxon, which must be honked when the spell is cast.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Crawling Carpet
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Fullround action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
Carpet of monstrous spiders, scarab beetles, or centipedes filling a 10-ft.-radius spread; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You summon a number of monstrous insect swarms, each of which attacks any creature occupying its square. Each square of the spell\rquote 
s effect contains a swarm of monstrous spiders, monstrous scarab beetles, or monstrous centipedes, to a maximum of 12 swarms, assuming that the spell\rquote s effect isn\rquote t blocked by obstacles. The sw
arms are stationary after being summoned, and won\rquote t pursue creatures that flee. Use the monstrous spider swarm statistics for monstrous scarab beetle swarms and monstrous centipede swarms as well.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dancing Lights
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 0; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
Up to four lights, all within a 10-ft.-radius area; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You create up to four lights that resemble lanterns or flashlights (and cast that amount of light), or up to four glowing spheres of light, or one faintly glowing, vaguely humanoid shape. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 dancing lights }{\fs20\cf0 
must stay within a 10-foot-radius area in relation to each other but otherwise move as you desire (no
 concentration required): forward or back, up or down, straight or turning corners, and so forth. The lights can move up to 100 feet per round. A light winks out if the distance between you and the nearest light exceeds the spell\rquote s range.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Darkness
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Darkness]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Object touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This spell causes an object to radiate darkness out to a 20- foot radius. Not even creatures who can normally see in the dark (such as with darkvision) can see in an area shrouded in magical }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness}{\fs20\cf0 
. Normal lights (flashlights, candles, lanterns, and so forth) do not illuminate the darkened area, nor do light spells of lower level (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 light }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 dancing lights}{\fs20\cf0 ). }{\i\fs20\cf0 Darkness }{
\fs20\cf0 and the 2nd-level spell }{\i\fs20\cf0 daylight }{\fs20\cf0 cancel each other, leaving whatever light conditions normally prevail in the overlapping areas of the spells.
\par If the spell is cast on a small object that is then placed inside or under a lightproof covering, the spell\rquote s effects are blocked until the covering is removed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Darkness }{\fs20\cf0 counters or dispels any light spell of equal or lower level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dataread
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2, Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
Read machinereadable data; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You run your finger over any machine-readable data source (a
 barcode, a computer disk, a CD, magnetic tape, or any similar record) to understand the content of the data. You experience the data as it would normally be experienced through an appropriate machine. For example, if reading a music CD, you hear the musi
c in your head. If reading a word processor file, you visualize and read an image of the page. If reading a barcode, you see the serial number, pricing information, or other barcoded data.
\par The amount of time required to experience the data is the same as th
at required to read it by conventional means. You can normally read 2 pages of documents in 1 minute. This spell does not decode encrypted data. Without the encryption code, an encrypted document or file appears as a seemingly random string of characters.
 If you know the encryption code, however, you can read encrypted data normally with this spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Daylight
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Object touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The object touched sheds light as bright as full daylight in a 60-foot radius. Creatures who suffer penalties in bright light suffer them while exposed to this magical light. Despite its name, this spell isn\rquote t eq
uivalent to daylight insofar as it does not damage or destroy creatures normally harmed by daylight (such as vampires). If the spell is cast on a small object that is then placed inside or under a lightproof covering, the spell\rquote 
s effects are blocked until the covering is removed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Daylight }{\fs20\cf0 brought into an area of magical darkness (or vice versa) is temporarily negated, so that the otherwise prevailing light conditions exist in the overlapping areas of effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Daylight }{\fs20\cf0 counters or dispels any darkness spell of equal or lower level, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Degauss
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Stored data is erased; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par By touching a single device that contains electronic files, such as a computer, external hard drive, CD-ROM, or magnetic disk, you erase all files on that device. The device is rendered empty of data.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Detect Scrying
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 120 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 
120-ft.-radius emanation centered on you; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 24 hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You immediately become aware of any attempt to observe you by means of scrying (including the }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying }{\fs20\cf0 spell). The spell\rquote 
s effect radiates from you moves as you move. The spell also reveals the use of crystal balls or other magic scrying devices. You know the location of every magical sensor within the spell\rquote s area.
\par If the scrying attempt originates within the area, you also know its location. If the attempt originates outside this range, you and the scrier immediately make opposed caster level checks. If you match or beat the scrier\rquote 
s result, you get a visual image of the scrier and a sense of the scrier\rquote s direction and distance from you (accurate to within one-tenth the distance).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Components: }{\fs20\cf0 A small shard of mirror and a miniature trumpet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Divination
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration:  }{
\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous 
\par Similar to }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury }{\fs20\cf0 but more powerful, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 divination }{\fs20\cf0 spell can provide you with a useful piece of advice in reply to a question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity that is 
to occur within one week. The advice can be as simple as a short phrase, or it might take the form of a cryptic rhyme or omen. In all cases, the GM controls what information the caster receives. Note that if the caster doesn\rquote 
t act on the information, the c
onditions may change so that the information no longer proves useful. The base chance for a correct divination is 70% + 1% per caster level. The GM adjusts the chance if unusual circumstances require it (if, for example, unusual precautions against }{
\i\fs20\cf0 divination }{\fs20\cf0 spells have been taken). If the dice roll fails, the caster knows the spell failed unless specific magic yielding false information is at work. As with }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury}{\fs20\cf0 
, multiple divinations about the same topic by the same caster use the same dice result as the first divination and yield the same answer each time. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Components: }{\fs20\cf0 Incense and a sacrificial offering appropriate to the caster\rquote s religion (purchase DC 13). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Electromagnetic Pulse
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Electricity]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Short (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 20-ft. burst; }
{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (object)
\par When you cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 electromagnetic pulse, }{\fs20\cf0 you send a powerful burst of energy that ruins electronic circuitry within the spell\rquote 
s area. Any computer, telephone, television, or other device with a computer processor inside ceases to function immediately, and the contents of hard drives and other storage media are scrambled.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 
affects only devices with extensive circuitry, not everything that uses electricity. Ordinarily the lights stay on, although their electronic switches might not function. Automobiles continue to run, although their engines will run more roughly wi
thout electronic guidance. Most cars manufactured after the 1980s won\rquote t start after an }{\i\fs20\cf0 electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 because they have electronic ignition systems.
\par Devices affected by an }{\i\fs20\cf0 electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 can be fixed according to the following table.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 Repair Task (Example)\cell Relevant Skill\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC\cell Repair DC\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Time\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Simple processors (cars, elevator controls)\cell Repair\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7\cell 15\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10 min.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Complex processors (computers, home theaters)\cell Repair\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10\cell 20
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 hr.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696
\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Data recovery (scrambled hard drive)\cell Computer Use\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4\cell 25\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 hr.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3969\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6724\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7868\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8696\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 You can jury-rig repairs more quickly and cheaply, but the repairs may not last. See the description of the Repair skill for details.

\par Some military gear is immune to energy effects such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 thanks to a process called tempest hardening. Tempest hardening adds +1 to the purchase DC of an item and makes it Restricted (+2).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Faerie Fire
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Light]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 
Creatures and objects within a 5-ft.-radius burst; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes 
\par A pale glow surrounds and outlines the subjects. Outlined subjects shed light as candles. Outlined creatures do not benefit from the concealment normally caused by darkness (but not magical }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness}{\fs20\cf0 ), }{\i\fs20\cf0 
blur, displacement, invisibility, }{\fs20\cf0 or similar effects. 
\par The light is too dim to have any special effect on undead or darkdwelling creatures. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 faerie fire }{\fs20\cf0 can be blue, green, or violet, according to your word at the time of casting. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 faerie fire }{\fs20\cf0 
does not cause any harm to the objects or creatures thus outlined.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Gaseous Form
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Willing corporeal creature touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The subject and all her gear become insubstantial, misty (or smoky), and translucent. The subject gains damage reduction 10/+1. Her material armor (including nat
ural armor) becomes worthless, though her size, Dexterity, deflection bonuses, and Defense bonuses from force armor (for example, from the }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor }{\fs20\cf0 spell) still apply. She becomes immune to poison and critical hits. She can
\rquote t attack or cast spells with v
erbal, somatic, material, or focus components while in gaseous form. The subject loses supernatural abilities while in gaseous form. If she has a touch spell ready to use, it is discharged harmlessly when the spell takes effect.
\par The gaseous subject can\rquote t r
un but she can fly (speed 10 feet, perfect maneuverability). She can pass through small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks, with all she was wearing or holding in her hands, as long as the spell persists. She is subject to wind. She can\rquote 
t enter water or other liquid.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component}{\fs20\cf0 : A bit of gauze or pinch of ash.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Haywire
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 0, Divine 0; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One object of up to 100 lb./level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (object)
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 haywire }{\fs20\cf0 spell causes a single device to behave randomly and erratically, defying any attempts to bring it under control. Cash registers display random prices a
nd open their money drawers repeatedly. Escalators surge forward, then reverse themselves. Automatic teller machines flash random patrons\rquote  account balances on the screen as they spew forth receipts (not money, though).
\par It\rquote s impossible to describe the exact effects of }{\i\fs20\cf0 haywire }{\fs20\cf0 on every modern device. In general, a machine subject to }{\i\fs20\cf0 haywire }{\fs20\cf0 
functions as if someone were pressing random buttons or otherwise manipulating it randomly.
\par Turning off a device subject to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 haywire }{\fs20\cf0 spell doesn\rquote t work, because the spell disables the \'93off\'94
 switch. Cutting off the power supply (by unplugging it, for example) disables the device 1d4 rounds later, ending the spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A small magnet.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Improved Arcane Lock
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One door, cabinet, chest, or portal/level, up to 30 sq. ft./ level each; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 
1 hour/level
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, }{\fs20\cf0 except as described above. Additionally, }{\i\fs20\cf0 improved arcane lock }{\fs20\cf0 closes all targeted doors or containers if they\rquote re open when 
the spell is cast, then locks them. Unlike most spells, the caster need not have an unblocked line of effect to each door targeted by the spell, but the caster must know the location of each door. Mages and Techno Mages often use }{\i\fs20\cf0 
improved arcane lock }{\fs20\cf0 to simultaneously close and lock every door in a building, either to trap something inside or lock something out.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Instant Connectivity
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleporting)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
Creature touched, or up to eight willing creatures joining hands; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Instant connectivity }{\fs20\cf0 can only be cast through a computer network (see the Casting Spells through Email side
bar). With the aid of instant messaging software, you physically transport the subject or subjects from one place to another. If several willing persons link hands in a circle, up to eight creatures can be affected by the spell at the same time.
\par At least one of the creatures affected must be touching a computer with an Internet connection and active instant messaging (IM) software. The targets must be sent to a specific IM address that is currently active online. }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Instant connectivity }{\fs20\cf0 causes the targets to appear in the room from which that IM address is being accessed, automatically gaining surprise on anyone else in that room.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A computer hard drive (purchase DC 23 or higher).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Instant Identify
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Full-round action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One touched object; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The spell determines all magic properties of a single magic item, including how to activate those functions (if appropriate) and how many charges (if any) are left.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pearl (purchase DC 12).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Machine Invisibility
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal or touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One cr
eature or object weighing no more than 100 lb./level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 
Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
\par The creature or object touched cannot b
e detected by video cameras, electronic sensors, or other high-tech detection machines. The creature is also invisible to mechanical constructs such as gear golems, digital homunculi, and mechanical homunculi. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear,
 the gear is likewise undetectable. The subject is missing from still photos taken while the spell is in effect, closed-circuit television monitors don\rquote 
t display the subject, and other machines are likewise fooled. The creature or object touched can stand on a scale and doesn\rquote t appear to weigh anything. Infrared and heat sensors detect only the ambient heat levels. X-ray machines don\rquote 
t reveal the presence of an object with }{\i\fs20\cf0 machine invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 Microphones don\rquote t pick up sounds that the subject makes directly
, although they will pick up sounds that subject makes by interacting with the environment. A hidden microphone wouldn\rquote t hear the subject\rquote 
s voice but would record the sound of that creature throwing a brick through a window. Items dropped or put down by an
 affected creature become visible to machine detectors; items picked up disappear if tucked into clothing or a bag carried by the creature. Light never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so (thus, the effect in a photograph or video 
image is that of a light with no visible source). Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible, such as a trailing rope.
\par The spell ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this spell, an \'93attack\'94 includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character\rquote 
s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If the subject attacks directly, however, the subject and its gear immediately becomes visible to machines.
\par While }{\i\fs20\cf0 machine invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 is useful for many tasks requiring stealth, it sometimes makes the subject\rquote s life more difficult. A stoplight sensor under an intersection might not pick up a motorcycle with }{\i\fs20\cf0 
machine invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 Automatic sliding doors at the supermarket won\rquote t open for the subject of }{\i\fs20\cf0 machine invisibility. }{\fs20\cf0 Talking on the telephone or radio is impossible.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A glass lens, which the caster fogs by breathing on it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Bullets
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4, Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
50 bullets, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 
Yes (harmless, object)
\par You enhance up to 50 individual bullets of the same caliber or a single magazine of up to 50 rounds with the p
ower of a 1stlevel spell you already know. The bullets must be fired from a gun for the subsidiary magical effects to take hold. The related spells you must know to create }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic bullets }{\fs20\cf0 of a particular type are listed below.

\par Each time you cast the spell, all the bullets receive the same enchantment, but afterward it is possible to mix }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic bullets }{\fs20\cf0 
with different effects in the same magazine. Be sure to note the order in which the bullets are loaded to correctly track the effect of each shot. Unless otherwise noted, }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic bullets }{\fs20\cf0 
deal normal damage before they impart their magical effect. This spell can be used to create one type of bullet (as noted in the chart below), or others at the GM\rquote s discretion. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Bullet Type\cell Other Spell Known\cell Effect\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Curing bullet (divine)\cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 
Cure light wounds\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Bullet deals no damage and instead cures 1d8+5 points of damage.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Inflicting bullet (divine)\cell }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Inflict light wounds\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Creature damaged by pain bullet must succeed at a Will save (DC 14) or take an additional 1d8+5 points of damage.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Knock-out bullet (arcane)\cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Sleep\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Creature damaged by knock-out bullet must succeed at a Will save (DC 14) or fall into a comatose slumber. Creatures with 5 or more Hit Dice are immne to this effect.\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 
\cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Panic bullet (arcane)
\cell }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cause fear\cell }{\fs20\cf0 Creature damaged by terror bullet must succeed at a Will save (DC 14) or be panicked (\endash 2 morale penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, and saves) for 1d4 rounds.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth9948\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2318 \cellx2210\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1972 \cellx4182\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth5658 \cellx9840\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Circle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time:
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 10-ft.-radius emanation from touched creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No (see text)
\par This spell wards an area from attacks by creatures of a specific allegiance (chosen when the spell is cast), from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around the subject at a distance of 10 feet. The
 barrier moves with the subject and has three major effects:
\par First, everyone inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 gains a +2 deflection bonus to Defense and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply only against attacks made by creatures with the specified allegiance.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess creatures within the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 (as by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 possession }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation). The barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast.
\par Third, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 thwarts any attempt to exert mental control over creatures within its area. If a dominated creature enters the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle}{\fs20\cf0 , mental control is lost for the duration of the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 spell or until the creature leaves the protected area.
\par Fourth, the spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures of the specified allegiance. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching a creature inside the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle}{\fs20\cf0 . The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if anyone inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 
makes an attack against a blocked creature or the subject tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature.
\par Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and reach and step inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic ID
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 0; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Illusory identification card; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 See description; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par With this glamer, you make a small card or slip of paper appear to be a valid identification card of your choosing. The card bears your name, likeness, and all other data expected by a
nyone examining such a card. However, it is only visually accurate and does not contain any valid machine-readable data or electronic coding. You cannot use this spell to make an electronic passkey. The illusion lasts only as long as you touch the card, t
o a maximum of 5 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small card or slip of paper.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Message
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Fullround action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One object (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Permanent until discharged; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (object)
\par This spell imbues a modern device such as a television, radio, computer monitor, or news ticker with a message you set that\rquote s delivered when a specified event o
ccurs. The message, which must be 25 words or less, is delivered in a manner appropriate to the device targeted by the spell. A newscaster on a targeted television will appear to speak the message. A stereo plays the message as a repetitive song lyric. An
 electronic traffic sign displays the message for all motorists to see.
\par The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to your command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or specific as desired, although only visiual and audible triggers can be used such as the following: \'93
Deliver the message when a man in a dark suit walks past with a gun drawn.\'94 Triggers react to what appears to be the case. Disguises and illusions can fool them. Normal darkness does not defeat a visual trigger (it\rquote 
s common for a television to flicker to life in a dark apartment, delivering a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic message}{\fs20\cf0 ). Magical darkness and }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 
will defeat a visual trigger, however, and silent movement and magical silence defeats audible triggers. Audible trig
gers can be keyed to general types of noises (footsteps, elevator music) or to a specific noise or a spoken work. Actions can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible. For example, \'93
Deliver the message when any creature picks up the talking doll\'94 is an acceptable command if the creature is visible. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic message }{\fs20\cf0 cannot distinguish class, level, Hit Dice, or allegiance.
\par The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per caster level, so a 6th-level caster can command a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic message }{\fs20\cf0 to respond to triggers up to 90 feet away. Regardless of range, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic message }{\fs20\cf0 
can respond only to visible or audible triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A carved jade figurine (purchase DC 8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Mask Metal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
A single metal object weighing no more than 10 lb./level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/ level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None or Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No or yes (ha
rmless, object)
\par This glamer makes a metal object undetectable to metal detectors. When any creature or character makes a Search or Spot check to detect the object, he or she does not gain equipment bonuses from any device that detects metal.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A magnet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Mending
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 0, Divine 0; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 10 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One object of up to 1 pound/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless, object)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Mending }{\fs20\cf0 repairs small breaks or tears in objects (not warps). In metallic objects, it will weld a broken chain link, a necklace, or a knife, providing but one break exists. Ceramic or wooden objects with multiple breaks can be r
ejoined to be as strong as new. A hole in a backpack or garment is completely healed over by }{\i\fs20\cf0 mending}{\fs20\cf0 . The spell can repair a magic item, but the item\rquote 
s magical abilities are not restored. The spell has no effect on creatures (even constructs).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Nondetection
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature or object touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless, object)
\par The warded creature or object becomes difficult to detect by divination and detection spells, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying}{\fs20\cf0 . }{\i\fs20\cf0 Nondetection }{\fs20\cf0 
also prevents location by such magic items as crystal balls. If a divination is attempted against the warded creature or item, the c
aster of the divination must succeed at a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) against a DC of 11 + the caster level of the spellcaster who cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection. }{\fs20\cf0 If you cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection }{\fs20\cf0 
on yourself or on an item currently in your possession, the DC is 15 + your caster level.
\par If cast on a creature, }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection }{\fs20\cf0 wards the creature\rquote s gear as well as the creature itself.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pinch of diamond dust (purchase DC 10).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Obscuring Mist
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 30 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
Cloud centered on you spreads 30 ft. and is 20 ft. high; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par A misty vapor arises around you. It is stationary once created. The vapor 
obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature 5 feet away has one-half concealment (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker cannot use sight to locate the targ
et).
\par A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4 rounds. A strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 fireball, flaming wrath}{\fs20\cf0 , or similar spell burns away the fog in the spell\rquote s area. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 
wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 burns away the fog in the area into which it deals damage.
\par This spell does not function underwater.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Phantasmal Killer
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One living creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with), then Fortitude partial; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You create the phantasmal image of the most fearsome creature imaginable to the subject simply by forming the fears of the subject\rquote s subconscious mind into something that its conscious mind can visualize: this most horrible beast. Only the spell
\rquote s subject can perceive the }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantasmal killer. }{\fs20\cf0 You see only a shadowy shape. The subject first gets a Will save to recognize the image as unreal. If the subjec
t fails the Will save, the phantasm touches him, and he must succeed at a Fortitude save or die from fear. Even if the Fortitude save is successful, the subject takes 3d6 points of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Phantom Chopper
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 0 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One quasi-real motorcycle; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You conjure a quasi-real motorcycle. The motorcycle can be ridden only by you or the one person for whom
 you specifically create the cycle. A phantom chopper looks like a heavily customized motorcycle of indeterminate make and model. It has realistic-looking license plates, and you decide what the license plate says when you cast the spell.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom chopper }{\fs20\cf0 has a Defense of 10, hardness of 5, and 20 hit points +1 hit point per caster level. If it loses all its hit points, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom chopper }{\fs20\cf0 disappears. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom chopper }{
\fs20\cf0 has a top speed of 40 feet per caster level, an initiative modifier of +0, and a maneuver modifier of +1.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom choppers }{\fs20\cf0 gains certain powers according to caster level. A motorcycle\rquote s abilities include those of motorcycles of lower caster levels.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 7th Level: }{\fs20\cf0 The motorcycle can ride over sandy, muddy, or even swampy ground without difficulty or decrease in speed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 8th Level: }{\fs20\cf0 The motorcycle can ride over water as if it were firm, dry ground.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 9th Level: }{\fs20\cf0 The motorcycle can ride in the air as if it were firm land, so chasms and the like can be crossed without benefit of a bridge. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom chopper }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot take off and fly. It can only ride horizontally across the air. After 1 round in the air, the motorcycle falls.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Phantom Limousine
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 0 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One quasi-real limousine; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You conjure forth a quasi-real limousine that seats eight Medium characters (two in th
e front and six in a comfortable passenger area), four Large creatures (one in the front and three in the back), or sixteen Small creatures (four in the front and twelve in the back). The limousine has the exterior color and design details you choose when
 you prepare the spell, and the interior is one of opulent luxury. You decide what its license plates look like when you cast the spell.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom limousine }{\fs20\cf0 has a Defense of 6, hardness of 15, and 50 hit points +1 point per caster level. If it loses all its hit points, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom limousine }{\fs20\cf0 disappears. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom limousine 
}{\fs20\cf0 is much faster than it looks, with a top speed of 60 feet per caster level, an initiative modifier of \endash 2, and a maneuver modifier of \endash 2.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom limousine }{\fs20\cf0 has enough luxurious food and drink inside to provide a hearty meal for all passengers. It has all the powers of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 phantom chopper }{\fs20\cf0 
(ability to drive over bad terrain, water, or air). Additionally, it is airtight and can even travel underwater at a speed of 10 feet per caster level.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A pair of car keys on a silver keychain.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Phantom Projectiles
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
50 projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 
Yes (harmless, object)
\par You turn ammunition (such as arrows, bolts, bullets, and shuriken) into incorporeal projectiles that damage only their intended targets.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Phantom projectiles }{\fs20\cf0 pass through intervening obstacles (including armor) and thus ignore cover bonuses and equipment bonuses to Defense. Barriers of magical force, such as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 , stops them. }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Phantom bullets }{\fs20\cf0 count as having a +3 enhancement bonus for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction, although they don\rquote t actually receive the enhancement bonus on attacks or damage. Additionally, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
phantom bullets }{\fs20\cf0 disappear 1d4 rounds after being fired, making it impossible to gather ballistic evidence.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 In addition to the bullets, the caster needs a small chunk of lithium.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Rage of Bees
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Full-round action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
1d3 swarms of sentient killer bees, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You summon 1d3 swarms of sentient killer bees, each one filling a 5-foot square within the spell\rquote s effect. The swarms independently attack targets designated by you.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Recharge
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous and special (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par By converting electrical energy into eldritch power, you can recover quickly from debilitating physical effects. However, you must draw current from a wall socket to power this healing magic.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 recharge }{\fs20\cf0 spell instantly eliminates the following conditions}{\i\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 
cowering, dazed, exhausted, fatigued, nauseated, shaken, and stunned. The caster can heal herself of some of these conditions, but others (such as stunned) don\rquote t allow spellcasting or other actions.
\par In addition, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 recharge }{\fs20\cf0 spell instantly cures blindness or deafness caused by a spell or spell-like ability, and it grants a +4 bonus on Fortitude saves against poison for 1 minute.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 An active electrical outlet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Relay Text
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Unlimited; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
A text message reaches an electronic device of someone you know; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You cause a text message of up to 25 words
 to appear on the screen of an electronic device capable of receiving such messages, such as a cell phone, pager, PDA, or computer. If the device is turned on, the message appears instantly; if not, the message appears as soon as someone turns it on. The 
message remains onscreen until read, then disappears, leaving no electronic record of its appearance. You must have seen the device to send a message to it.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Sanctuary
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par Any opponent attempting to strike or otherwise directly attack the warded creature, even with a targeted spell, must attempt a Will save. If the save
 succeeds, the opponent can attack normally and is unaffected by that casting of the spell. If the save fails, the opponent can\rquote t follow through with the attack, that part of the attacker\rquote s action is lost, and the attacker can\rquote 
t directly attack the warded creature for the duration of the spell. Those not attempting to attack the subject remain unaffected.
\par This spell does not prevent the warded creature from being attacked or affected by area or effect spells. The subject cannot attack without breaking the s
pell but may use nonattack spells or otherwise act. This allows a warded acolyte to heal wounds, for example, or to }{\i\fs20\cf0 bless}{\fs20\cf0 , perform an }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury}{\fs20\cf0 , summon creatures, and so on.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Scrying
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4, Divine 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M/DF, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 See text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Magical sensor; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You can see and hear some creature, who may be at any distance. If the subject succeeds at a Will save, the scrying attempt fails. The difficulty of the save depends on how well you know the subject and what sort of physical connection (if any) you have t
o that creature. Furthermore, if the subject is on another plane or in some other dimension (such as the extradimensional space created by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 clown car }{\fs20\cf0 spell), it gains a +5 circumstance bonus to its Will save.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge of Subject\cell }\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Will Save Modifier\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 None*\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Secondhand (you have heard of the subject)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Firsthand (you have met the subject)\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Familiar (you know the subject well)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 5\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4378\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 *}{\i\fs20\cf0 
You must have some sort of connection to a creature you have no knowledge of.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6591\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Connection\cell }\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Will Save Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Likeness or picture\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Possession or garment\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 4\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Body part, lock of hair, nail clippings, etc.\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3491\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5329\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par If the save fails, you can see the subject and the subject\rquote s immediate surroundings (approximately 10 feet in all directions of the subject). If the subject moves, the sensor follows at a speed of up to 150 feet.
\par The following spells, if active on the caster during the scrying, operate through the sensor: }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkvision, read magic, tongues, }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing. Detect magical aura }{\fs20\cf0 
has a 5% chance per caster level of operating correctly through the sensor.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Components: }{\fs20\cf0 Some droplets of nitric acid in an eyedropper.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A mirror of finely wrought silver (at least 2 feet by 4 feet) or an orb of polished crystal (at least 5 inches in diameter). Either item has a purchase DC of 19.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Divine Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A font filled with holy water (purchase DC 8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Secret Pocket
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3, Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Object touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One pocket on a garment; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret pocket }{\fs20\cf0 spell creates an extradimensional space that only you can reach through a pocket in the target garment. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret pocket }{\fs20\cf0 
can hold 1 pound per caster level, and you can put anything in it that will physical fit through the pocket opening. The item can be of any length and isn\rquote t otherwise restricted by the pocket\rquote s actual dimensions\emdash 
it just has to be able to fit through the opening. The contents of the extradimensional space never cause the pocket to bulge, and items inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret pocket }{\fs20\cf0 have no weight once they\rquote 
re placed inside (although the weight still counts 
against the capacity of the extradimensional space). Whenever you reach into the pocket, you access the extradimensional space rather than the actual pocket. Anyone else who examines the pocket finds it completely ordinary. If someone else puts something 
in the pocket, you can\rquote t reach it because your hand goes into the extradimensional space instead.
\par You can give the garment to someone else to wear if you like, but only you can access the extradimensional space through the pocket.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A black handkerchief.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Secret Vault
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 See text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One chest and up to 1 cu. ft. of goods/caster level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 60 days or until discharged; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No 
\par You hide a briefcase, backpack, dufflebag, or similar item in an extradimensional space for up to 60 days and can retrieve it at will. The item used as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret vault }{\fs20\cf0 can contain up to 
1 cubic foot of material per caster level (regardless of the item\rquote s actual size). If you put anything living inside the }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret vault, }{\fs20\cf0 
the spell fails. Once you cast the spell, the item and its contents disappear. You can retrieve it anytime thereafter by concentrating (an attack or move action), and it appears next to you.
\par To create the }{\i\fs20\cf0 secret vault}{\fs20\cf0 , you cast the spell while touching both the full-size container and a miniscule replica of it. The container and anything within it or touching it (subject to t
he volume limitation above) vanishes into an extradimensional space. You need the miniature replica to recall the container. After 60 days, the container reappears in your hand whether you wish it to or not.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A briefcase, duffle bag, or similar container prepared with expensive and rare reagents, as well as a miniscule replica of it. The actual storage container and the miniature replica have a combined purchase DC of 25.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seeming
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets: }{\fs20\cf0 
One creature/two levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates or Will disbelief (if interacted with); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{
\fs20\cf0 Yes or No (see text)
\par This glamer functions like the }{\i\fs20\cf0 change self }{\fs20\cf0 spell except you can change the appearance of other creatures as well. Affected creatures resume their normal appearances if slain. Unwilling targets can negate the spell\rquote 
s effect on them by making Will saves or with spell resistance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Shadowmoth Plague
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Fullround action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 
5- ft.-high cloud of shadowmoths filling a 10-ft.-radius spread; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You summon a number of shadowmoth swarms, each of which attacks any creature occupying its square. Each square of the spell\rquote s effect is filled with a swarm of shadowmoths, to a maximum of 12 swarms, assuming that the spell\rquote s effect isn
\rquote t blocked by obstacles. The swarms are stationary after being summoned, and won\rquote t pursue creatures that flee.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Shatter
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Sonic/Concussion]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area or Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
5-ft.-radius spread; or one solid object or one crystalline creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (object) or Fortitude half (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{
\fs20\cf0 Yes (object)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Shatter }{\fs20\cf0 creates a loud, ringing noise that shatters brittle, nonmagical objects; sunders a single solid, nonmagical object; or damages a crystalline creature.
\par Used as an area attack, }{\i\fs20\cf0 shatter }{\fs20\cf0 destroys nonmagical objects of glass, crystal, ceramic, or porcela
in, such as vials, windows, mirrors, bottles, windshields, and so forth. All such objects within a 5-foot radius of the point of origin are smashed into dozens of pieces by the spell. Objects weighing more than 1 pound per your level are not affected, but
 all other objects of the appropriate composition are shattered.
\par Alternatively, you can target }{\i\fs20\cf0 shatter }{\fs20\cf0 against a single solid object, regardless of composition, weighing up to 10 pounds per caster level.
\par Targeted against a crystalline creature (of any weight), }{\i\fs20\cf0 shatter }{\fs20\cf0 deals 1d6 points of sonic/concussion damage per caster level (maximum 10d6), with a Fortitude save for half damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A tuning fork.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Shield Other
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
One creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 hour/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par This spell creates a mystic connection between you and the subject so that some of the subject\rquote s wounds are 
transferred to you. The subject gains a +1 deflection bonus to Defense and a +1 resistance bonus on saving throws. Additionally, the subject takes only half damage from all wounds and attacks (including damage dealt by special abilities) that deal hit poi
n
t damage. The amount of damage not taken by the warded creature is taken by you. Forms of harm that do not involve hit points, such as charm effects, temporary ability damage, and level draining are not affected. If the subject suffers a reduction of hit 
p
oints from a lowered Constitution score, the reduction is not split with you because it is not hit point damage. When the spell ends, subsequent damage is no longer divided between the subject and you, but damage already split is not reassigned to the sub
ject.
\par If you and the subject of the spell move out of range of each other, the spell ends.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A pair of platinum rings (purchase DC 15 each) worn by both you and the warded creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Shutdown
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3, Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, M/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 
15-ft.-radius emanation centered on a point in space; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par All electrical devices within the spell\rquote s area\emdash lights, computers, cell phones, digital watches, and so forth\emdash 
do not function for the duration of the spell. The spell does not prevent devices outside of the area of effect from operating normally, even if they are on the same electrical circuit as those affe
cted. (Even if the spell is cast on a generator supplying power to devices outside the area of effect, those outside devices continue to remain powered.) At the end of the spell\rquote 
s duration, the devices operate again as if their operation had not been inter
rupted. (Computers do not need to be restarted, and clocks display the correct time.) Many sophisticated mechanical devices, including automobiles and aircraft, rely on electrical components, and so are usually affected by this spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Components: }{\fs20\cf0 The CONTROL, ALT, and DELETE keys from a computer keyboard.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Speak with Animals
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{
\fs20\cf0 1 minute/ level
\par You can comprehend and communicate with animals. You are able to ask questions of and receive answers from animals, although the spell doesn\rquote 
t make animals any more friendly or cooperative than normal. Furthermore, wary and cunning animals are likely to be terse and evasive, while the more stu
pid ones make inane comments. If the animal is friendly, it may do some favor or service for you (as determined by the GM).
\par This spell does not work on magical beasts or vermin.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Spell Immunity
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par The warded creature is immune to the effects of one specified spell for every four levels you have.
 The spells must be of 4th level or lower. The warded creature effectively has unbeatable spell resistance regarding the specified spell or spells. Naturally, such immunity doesn\rquote t protect a creature from spells for which spell resistance doesn
\rquote t apply.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spell immunity }{\fs20\cf0 
protects against spells, spell-like effects of magic items, and innate spell-like abilities of creatures. It does not protect against supernatural or extraordinary abilities, such as breath weapons or gaze attacks. Only a particular spell can 
be protected against, not a school of spells or a group of spells that are similar in effect.
\par A creature can have only one }{\i\fs20\cf0 spell immunity }{\fs20\cf0 spell in effect on it at a time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Spell Resistance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Divine 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par The creature gains spell resistance equal to 12 + your caster level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Summon Vivilor I
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Full-round action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{
\fs20\cf0 One summoned creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This spell summons a 1st-level vivilor, a strange creature from the edge of Shadow. The caster chooses the form the vivilor will take when it appears, and the vivilor maintains that shape for the duration of the spell. The vivilor appears where you design
a
te and acts immediately, attacking your enemies unless you give it other orders. You can mentally direct it not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other actions. The vivilor acts normally on the last round of the spell and dissipates i
nto nothingness at the end of its turn.
\par You choose the form the vivilor will take.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Summon Vivilor II
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 2, Divine 2; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more summoned creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor I, }{\fs20\cf0 except you can summon one 2nd-level vivilor or 1d3 1st-level vivilors. If you create more than one vivilor, you can choose their forms separately; they need not be identical.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Summon Vivilor III
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3, Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more summoned creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor I, }{\fs20\cf0 except you can summon one 3rd-level vivilor, 1d3 2nd-level vivilors, or 1d4+1 1st-level vivilors. If you create more than one vivilor, you can choose their forms separately; they need not be identical.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Summon Vivilor IV
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4, Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more summoned creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor I, }{\fs20\cf0 except you can summon one 4th-level vivilor, 1d3 3rd-level vivilors, or 1d4+1 2nd-level vivilors. If you create more than one vivilor, you can choose their forms separately; they need not be identical.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Summon Vivilor V
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5, Divine 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more summoned creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par As }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor I, }{\fs20\cf0 except you can summon one 5th-level vivilor, 1d3 4th-level vivilors, or 1d4+1 3rd-level vivilors. If you create more than one vivilor, you can choose their forms separately; they need not be identical.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Synchronicity
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 5, Divine 5; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 spell subtly rearranges reality so that the subject isn\rquote t inconvenienced by the minor delays in modern life. For the subject of }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity, }{\fs20\cf0 
the traffic light is always green and there\rquote s always a waiting elevator. On a city street, }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 
ensures that a taxicab pulls up within 1 round of the subject standing on the curb. The subway trains always run on time for the subject of }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity, }{\fs20\cf0 and waiters and clerks promptly arrive whenever they\rquote re needed.

\par Though designed for convenience, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 spell offers advantages for a caster in harm\rquote s way. The subject of }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 
can run at full speed through even through a dense crowd, because people subconsciously move aside. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 spell also provides a +4 bonus to Defense when the subject\rquote 
s movement provokes an attack of opportunity (just like the Mobility feat), because even enemies have a tendency to stay out of the subject\rquote s way.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 is also useful during car chases. Because other cars naturally get out of the way and traffic lights always turn green, a driver with }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 
gains a +8 inherent bonus on Drive checks in urban areas and can make an unlimited number of avoid hazard and hard turn stunts (drivers are ordinarily limited to one or two stunts). When engaged in vehicular hide-and-seek, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 synchronicity 
}{\fs20\cf0 spell provides a +8 inherent bonus on Bluff and Hide checks (if you\rquote re being chased) or Sense Motive and Spot checks (if you\rquote re pursuing another vehicle) because other cars and pedestrians naturally aid your efforts.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A gold-level credit card or garage door remote control.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Trace Purge
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1, Divine 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{
\fs20\cf0 15-ft.-radius emanation centered on a point in space; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par When you cast this spell, you touch one creature (yourself or someone else). The spell eliminates all physical evidence left by that person\rquote 
s body (fingerprints, fluids, hairs, and so forth) within the affected area along with any evidentiary materials accidentally deposited by that person\rquote s body, clothes, or gear (such as fibers, mud, dust, and so fo
rth). The spell only affects materials no larger than a few strands of hair or a few ounces of dirt. It does not change any disturbances that person created (including footprints, tool marks, or broken items) or remove any object the target person deliber
ately left.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A pair of tweezers.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Undetectable Magical Aura
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 1; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 
Object touched weighing up to 5 lb./level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 day/level (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This glamer allows you to mask a magic item\rquote s aura from detection. It fools }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura }{\fs20\cf0 spells such that the item appears nonmagical. If the object bearing }{\i\fs20\cf0 undetectable magical aura }{\fs20\cf0 has }{
\i\fs20\cf0 instant identify }{\fs20\cf0 cast on it, the examiner recognizes that the aura is false and detects the object\rquote s actual qualities if he succeeds at a Will save.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A small square of silk that must be passed over the object.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Vampiric Touch
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3, Divine 3; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Living creature touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous and 1 hour (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You must succeed at a melee touch attack. Your touch deals 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d6). You gain temporary hit points equal to the damage you deal. However, you can\rquote t gain more than the target\rquote 
s current hit points +10, which is enough to kill the target. The temporary hit points disappear 1 hour later.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Via Negativa
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 4, Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 S, F/DF; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Fortitude half; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par When you cast the }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, your right hand is covered with crackling black energy that causes intense pain to any living creature that comes into prolonged contact with it. Meanwhile, it imbues you with necromantic power.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 spell affects any living creature tha
t you grapple, dealing 4d6 points of damage on round the grapple is initiated and each round the grapple is maintained. If your foe escapes the grapple, you can attempt to attain another hold. Furthermore, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 
spell grants a +5 enhancement bonus to Strength as long as you\rquote re grappling.
\par The somatic component for the }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 spell begins with a handshake motion. If you use an innocuous handshake with someone to start an }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, your melee touch attack automatically succeeds and you don\rquote t provoke an attack of opportunity to start the grapple.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A ring with a black pearl (purchase DC 22).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Wall Walk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Level: }{\fs20\cf0 Arcane 3, Divine 4; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack action; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 10 minutes/ level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par }{\fs20 An improved version of the }{\i\fs20 spider climb }{\fs20 spell, }{\i\fs20 wall walk }{\fs20 
allows for faster, easier movement. The subject can travel on vertical surfaces or ceilings as well as they can walk on the ground. No matter how smooth the wall, the subject of a }{\i\fs20 wall walk }{\fs20 
spell can run up it or even fight from a sideways position, never needing to make Climb checks to do so. The subject can switch from floor to walls to ceilings as many times as his speed allows.
\par Unlike the }{\i\fs20 spider climb }{\fs20 spell, }{\i\fs20 wall walk }{\fs20 doesn\rquote t require the subject to use his hands to climb, so the subject can hold items and wield weapons normally.
\par }{\i\fs20 Material Component: }{\fs20 A black strip of Velcro.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par }{Wire Walk
\par }{\fs20 Conjuration (Teleporting)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level: }{\fs20 Arcane 4; }{\b\fs20 Components: }{\fs20 V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time: }{\fs20 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range: }{\fs20 Personal and touch; }{\b\fs20 Target: }{\fs20 You and touched objects or other touched willing cr
eatures weighing up to 25 lb./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration: }{\fs20 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw: }{\fs20 None and Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20 No and yes (object)
\par You and any other objects or creatures targeted by the spell teleport instantly to the location of a telephone
 you call. The telephone must be answered; the spell only works over an open line. You arrive adjacent to the device (within 5 feet of it), and any other creatures transported by the spell appear next to you.
\par For example, you might use a cell phone to call
 home. As soon as anyone answers the phone (including an answering machine), you could use the spell to teleport home. Willing subjects of the spell (and the objects they carry) need not make a saving throw, nor does spell resistance apply in this instanc
e.}{\fs20\cf0 
\par }}