{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f130\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-BoldCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \f130\fs21\super superscript # in tables;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info
{\title any of the monsters presented in the}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy7\hr10\min49}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr15\min5}{\version72}{\edmins223}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords28945}{\nofchars164991}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws202620}{\vern8223}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace163\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2
\dgvshow2\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SHADOW CREATURES
\par 
\par SHADOW CREATURES AND THE MODERN WORLD
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Humans cling steadfastly to the reality that they wish to be true, resisting every piece of evidence that suggests that the world isn\rquote t the way they believe it to be. Only a relative few make up the \'93aware minority,\'94
 those humans who have experienced a Shadow event and seen it for more or less what it was. The majority, the mundanes, find comfort in translating kobolds with swords into knife-wielding muggers and malicious spirits into tricks of the light. A magical
 effect might be fireworks or a weather peculiarity. Never underestimate the human mind\rquote s power to deceive itself and maintain a level of comfort.
\par Those who subconsciously delude themselves do so for the sake of their fragile sanity. Those who know and und
erstand at least some aspect of the Shadow tide maintain the secret to avoid ridicule or investigation, as well as to protect the public illusion of a sane, mundane world.
\par In addition, since Shadow creatures really don\rquote t belong to this reality, they have a tendency to slowly fade away. Some of them disappear within 1d4 rounds of dying (being reduced to \endash 
10 hit points), and none remain in this reality for more than 1d4 hours before the tide of Shadow reclaims them.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par SHADOW CREATURE DESCRIPTIONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 
\par Ash Wraith
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Ash wraiths speak whatever languages they spoke in life.
\par They typically stand between 5 and 6 feet tall. Because they\rquote re incorporeal, they have no weight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Ash wraiths have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undead}{\fs20\cf0 : Undead are immune to poison, sleep, par
alysis, stunning, disease, necromantic effects, and mind-affecting effects. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or effects of massive damage, or any effect requiring a Fortitude save unless
 the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They may be healed by application of negative energy (such as an }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds }{\fs20\cf0 spell). They are destroyed if reduced to 0 hit points or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incorporeal (Ex)}{\fs20\cf0 : An ash wraith can be harmed only by othe
r incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. It is immune to nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or magic weapons, it has a 50% chance to ignore damage from a corporeal sou
rce (except for force effects, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic missile}{\fs20\cf0 , or attacks made with ghost touch weapons). It can pass through solid objects at will, but not force effects (such as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 
). Its attacks ignore natural armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as mage armor) work normally against it.
\par An ash wraith moves silently and cannot be heard with Listen checks. It has no Strength score, so its Dexterity modifier applies both to its melee and ranged attacks. Nonvisual 
senses, such as blindsight and scent, do not function against an ash wraith. An ash wraith cannot be tripped or grappled by a corporeal attacker.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Burning Touch (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The touch of an ash wraith deals 3d6 points of fire damage, and creatures hit by an ash wraith must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 15) or catch on fire.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spawn (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Any humanoid slain by an ash wraith\rquote s burning touch is immolated and reduced to a pile of ash
 that rises as an ash wraith in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under the command of the ash wraith that created them and remain enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unnatural Aura (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Both wild and domesticated anim
als can sense the unnatural presence of an ash wraith at a distance of 30 feet. They will not willingly approach nearer than that and panic if forced to do so; they remain panicked as long as they are within that range.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fear of Daylight (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Ash wraiths exposed to natural sunlight are panicked (no save). A panicked ash wraith flees from the sunlight as fast as possible; it can defend normally but cannot attack while exposed to natural sunlight.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Ash Wraith: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; Medium undead; HD 6d12; hp 39; Mas \emdash ; Init 
+7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 12 (+3 Dex, +2 deflection); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk +6 melee (3d6 fire, burning touch); Full Atk +6 melee (3d6 fire, burning touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reac
h 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, burning touch, spawn, unnatural aura, fear of daylight; AL evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 16, Con \emdash , Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +12, Intimidate +11, Listen +13, Read/Write
\par Language (up to any three), Search +9, Sense Motive +11,
\par Speak Language (up to any three), Spot +13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved
\par Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 7\endash 12 HD (Medium).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Big Cat
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Big cats have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pounce (Ex)}{\fs20\cf0 : If a big cat leaps upon a foe during the first round of combat, it can make a full attack even if it has already taken a move action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex)}{\fs20\cf0 : To use this ability, the big cat must hit with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can rake.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rake (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If a big cat successfully grabs its prey (see Improved Grab, above), it can make two rake attacks (+6 melee) with its hind legs as part of a full attack. Each successful rake attack deals 1d3+1 points of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex)}{\fs20\cf0 : This ability allows the big cat to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Big cats can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Big cats gain a +8 species bonus on Balance checks and a +4 species bonus on Hide, Jump, and Move Silently checks (for running jumps, the Jump bonus is +8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Big cats gain the bonus feats Weapon Finesse (bite) and Weapon Finesse (claw).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Big Cat: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium animal; HD 3d8+6; hp 19; Mas 15; Init +4; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 15, flatfooted 11 (+4 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +2; Grap +5
; Atk +6 melee (1d3+4, claw); Full Atk +6 melee (1d6+3, bite), +1 melee (1d3+1, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ pounce, improved grab, rake, scent, low-light vision; AL none or owner; SV Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 16, Dex 19,
 Con 15, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Balance +12, Climb +11, Hide +9, Jump +7, Listen +6, Move Silently +9, Spot +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite, claw).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 4\endash 5 (Medium).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Boar
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Boars are about 4 feet long and 3 feet high at the shoulder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Boars have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ferocity (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Boars are such tenacious combatants that they continue to fight without penalty until reduced to \endash 10 hit points. At \endash 10 hit points, they are slain.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the wild boar to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Boars can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Boar: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium animal; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Mas 17; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 16, touch 10, flat-footed 16 (+6 natural); BAB +2; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d6+3, gore); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+3, gore); FS 5 ft. b
y 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ ferocity, scent, low-light vision; AL None; SV Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Listen +7, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 4\endash 5 HD (Medium).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Breathsnatcher
\par }{\fs20\cf0 They average 6 feet tall and weigh about 150 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Breathsnatchers have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Clawing Smoke (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once every 1d4 rounds, a breathsnatcher can expel a 30-foot cone of magic smoke. The smoke grants one-half concealment to creatures in i
ts periphery and full concealment to characters obscured by more than 5 feet of smoke. In addition, any creature within the cone must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 14) or get smoke in their lungs.
\par Holding one\rquote s breath doesn\rquote t help, as tendrils of smoke a
ctively try to invade the lungs. This magic smoke begins to rip at the lungs and surrounding organs, dealing 3d4 points of damage per round. The affected creature can attempt another Fortitude save each subsequent round to cough out the semivaporous menac
e.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Snatch Breath (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 As a full-round action, the breathsnatcher can steal the breath from any adjacent creature with \endash 
1 or fewer hit points. This instantly kills the creature and grants the breathsnatcher damage reduction 15/+1 for 1 hour per Hit Die of the victim.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fast Healing 5 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A breathsnatcher heals 5 points of damage each round so long as it has at least 1 hit point remaining.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Breathsnatcher: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 6; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD 9d8; hp 40; Mas 10; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 13, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +3 natural, +1 equipment); BAB +9; Grap +11; Atk +11 melee (1d4+2, knife) or +12 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10) or +8 ranged (4d6, MAC
 
Ingram M10 burst); Full Atk +11/+6 melee (1d4+2, knife) or +12/+7 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10) or +8/+3 ranged (4d6, MAC Ingram M10 burst); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ clawing smoke, snatch breath, fast healing 5; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +9, Will 
+9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +14, Listen +14, Move Silently +14, Read/Write English, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak English, Speak Language (any one), Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Burst Fire, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Quick Draw, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Leather trenchcoat, knife, MAC Ingram M10 (.45 machine pistol) with suppressor.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Breathsnatcher Infiltrator 4: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 10; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD 9d8 plus 4d8; hp 58; Mas 10; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 21, touch 17, flat-footed 17 (+4 Dex, +3 class, +3 natural, +1 equipment); BAB +11; Grap +13; Atk +13 melee (1d4+2/19
\endash 20, knife) or +15 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10) or +11 ranged (4d6, MAC Ingram M10 burst); Full Atk +13/+8 melee (1d4+2/19\endash 
20, knife) or +15/+10 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10) or +11/+6 ranged (4d6, MAC Ingram M10 burst); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ clawing smoke, snatch breath, fast healing 5, sweep, improvised 
implements, improved evasion; AL evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +14, Will +10; AP 2; Rep +2; Str 14, Dex 18, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 16, Cha 9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +9, Escape Artist +11, Hide +17, Jump +9, Listen +14, Move Silently +17, Read/Write English, Read/Write Language (any one), Sleight of Hand +11, Speak English, Speak Language (any one), Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Burst Fire, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Quick Draw, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy, Strafe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Leather trenchcoat, knife, MAC Ingram M10 (.45 machine pistol) with suppressor.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Celestial
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All celestials are outsiders. A sample celestial (the gotthammer) is presented below; use the information about outsiders to create new celestial types.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Celestials have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Variable Size: }{\fs20\cf0 Most celestials are Medium, but their size can vary and some celestials can change their size naturall
y. Depending on their size, celestials gain a size bonus or penalty on attack rolls, Defense, Hide checks, and grapple checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Natural Armor}{\fs20\cf0 : Celestials gain a natural armor bonus to Defense equal to 3 + the celestial\rquote s Hit Dice.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A celestial is immune to one or more specific types of energy or weapon damage, as determined by rolling on }{\fs20 Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A celestial is resistant to one or more types of energy, as determined by rolling on }{\fs20 Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction}{\fs20\cf0 
. Roll again if the celestial is resistant to a type of energy against which it already has immunity.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Some celestials have damage reduction, as determined by rolling on }{\fs20 Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tongues (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A celestial may converse with any creature that has a language. This ability is always active.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Celestials have darkvision with a range of 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Allegiances: }{\fs20\cf0 Celestials have a primary allegiance to good. They may also have allegiances to law or chaos. Fallen celestials may revoke any or all of their prior allegiances.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Celestials gain either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Automatic Languages}{\fs20\cf0 : Celestials speak Celestial and a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10806 \cellx10698\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Table: Celectial Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10806 \cellx10698\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Roll d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Immunity\cell }\pard\plain 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Roll d%\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Resistance\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Roll d%\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Damage Reduction\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 01\endash 06\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 01\endash 21\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 None (do not roll again)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 01\endash 33\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
None (do not roll again)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 
\cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 07\endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 Cold damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 22\endash 27\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid resistance 10\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 34\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5/specific weapon type }{\cs15\b\f130\fs20\super 1}{\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 13\endash 18\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion damage\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 28\endash 30\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid resistance 20\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 46\endash 57\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 10/specific weapon type}{
\cs15\b\f130\fs20\super  1}{\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19\endash 24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity damage\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 31\endash 36\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cold resistance 10\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 58\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 20/specific weapon type}{
\cs15\f130\fs20\super  }{\cs15\b\f130\fs20\super 1}{\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 37\endash 39\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cold resistance 20\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 64\endash 72\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5/+1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 
\cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 31\endash 36\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ballistic damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 40\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion resistance 10\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 73\endash 81\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 10/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 37\endash 42\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Bludgeoning damage\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 46\endash 48\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion resistance 20\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 82\endash 84\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 15/+1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 
\cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 43\endash 48\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Piercing damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 49\endash 54\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity resistance 10\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 85\endash 87\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 20/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 49\endash 54\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Slashing damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 55\endash 57\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity resistance 20\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 88\endash 90\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5/+2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 
\cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 55\endash 60\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Poison damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 58\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire resistance 10}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 91\endash 93\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 10/+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 61\endash 66\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Radiation damage\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 64\endash 66\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire resistance 20}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 94\endash 98\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 15/+2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 
\cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 67\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Choose one, and roll again\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 67\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Choose one, and roll again\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 99\endash 100\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 20/+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1033 \cellx8340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2358 \cellx10698\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10806 \cellx10698\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\cs15\f130\fs20 1}{\fs20 
 Includes weapons made of a specific material (silver or wood, for example) or weapons that deal a specific type of damage (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing).\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10806\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10806 \cellx10698\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gotthammer (Avenging Angel): }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 15; Medium outsider; HD 14d8+70; hp 133; Mas 20; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect); Defense 27, touch 10, flat-footed 27 (+17 natural); BAB +14; Grap +18; Atk +21 melee (2d6+9/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 greatsword}{
\fs20\cf0 ); Full Atk +21/+16/+11 melee (2d6+7/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 greatsword}{\fs20\cf0 
) or +14/+9/+4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and fire resistance 10, aura of menace, call/dismiss weapon, damage reduction 10/+1, greater incarnation, imbue weapon, immune to ballistic damage and poison, keen
 vision, tongues; AL good, law; SV Fort +14, Ref +9, Will +12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 11, Con 20, Int 11, Wis 16, Cha 18.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Escape Artist +14, Hide +14, Intimidate +18, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +14, Listen +17, Move Silently +14, Read/Write Celestial, Sense Motive +17, Speak Celestial, Spot +17.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats}{\fs20\cf0 : Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aura of Menace (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A righteous aura surrounds the avenging angel. Any hostile creature within a 20-foot radius of a gotthammer must succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or take a \endash 
2 morale penalty on attacks, AC, and saves for one day or until they successfully injure the gotthammer generating the aura. A creature that has resisted or broken the effect cannot be affected again by the gotthammer\rquote s aura for one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Call/Dismiss Weapon (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, as a free action, a gotthammer may call his shining greatsword to him. The weapon is normally hidden in a secure location of the gotthammer\rquote s choo
sing, but may be called from anywhere unless carried by another living creature or in an area where magic does not function. Once per day, as a full-round action, the gotthammer may dismiss the sword to a location of his choosing.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Imbue Weapon (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, as a full-round action, a gotthammer may imbue his weapon with holy power, dealing +2d6 points of damage to creatures with an allegiance to evil. The effect lasts for 14 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Greater Incarnation (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A gotthammer can change his size as a move action, becoming a 20-foot-tall (Huge) figure at will. His greatsword\rquote s size increases proportionately. In this form, the gotthammer\rquote 
s statistics change as follows: Defense 25, touch 8, flat-footed 25 (\endash 2 size, +17 natural); Grap +31; Atk +24 melee (4d6+16/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 greatsword}{\fs20\cf0 ); Full Atk +24/+19/+14 melee (4d6+12/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 
+3 greatsword}{\fs20\cf0 ); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; Str 29; Hide +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Gotthammers are immune to ballistic damage and poison.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid and Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A gotthammer ignores the first 10 points of any attack that deals acid or fire damage. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A gotthammer ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 greatsword}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Changeling (Template)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Template Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \'93Changeling\'94 is an inherited template that can be added to any Small or Medium humanoid, monstrous humanoid, or outsider (referred to hereafter as the base creature). The changeling uses all all the base creature\rquote 
s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Challenge Rating: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the base creature +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature\rquote s type changes to fey.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hit Dice: }{\fs20\cf0 Change to d6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Qualities: }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling retains all of the base creature\rquote 
s extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like qualities except for qualities tied to its type. In addition to gaining the fey type, a changeling has the following special qualities.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 charm person, object reading; }{\fs20\cf0 3/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 . The changeling\rquote 
s manifester level is equal to his or her character level.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling picks one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion) to which it is immune.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Energy (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling gains energy resistance 10 to one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion). A changeling cannot be resistant to an energy type to which it is immune (see above).

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 5/+1 (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon. Unlike sidhe, this damage reduction doesn\rquote t increase as the changeling gains Hit Dice or levels.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Allegiances: }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling has an allegiance to chaos, but unlike other sidhe, chaos need not be the primary allegiance. This allegiance cannot be broken. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ability Scores: }{\fs20\cf0 A changeling\rquote s ability scores change as follows: Dex +4, Con \endash 2, Cha +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Changelings gain a +2 species bonus on Bluff and Sleight of Hand checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 As the base creature. Unlike sidhe, changelings do not gain Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons Proficiency as bonus feats.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Changeling (Half-Human) Charismatic Hero 1: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; Medium fey; HD 1d6+2 (includes Toughness feat); hp 8; Mas 8; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 11 (+4 Dex, +1 leather jacket); BAB +0; Grap \endash 1; Atk \endash 
1 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); Full Atk \endash 1 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
 ft.; SA spell-like abilities, immune to electricity, fire resistance 10, damage reduction 5/+1; AL chaos; SV Fort +0, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +2; Str 8, Dex 18, Con 8, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 19.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +10, Diplomacy +8, Disguise +8, Drive +6, Gamble +3, Gather Information +8, Knowledge (streetwise) +5, Sleight of Hand +8. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Toughness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Charismatic Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Fast-talk.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Leather jacket, loaded Ruger Service-Six (.385 revolver), stolen BMW M3 sports coupe, coat, casual clothes, sunglasses, first aid kit (in car\rquote s trunk).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Demonic Auto
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The demonic auto does not speak. It has the normal height and weight of the automobile it most closely resembles. }{\fs16\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Demonic autos have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Construct: }{\fs20\cf0 Demonic autos are immune to mind-influencing effects and to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on o
bjects or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Outsider Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 While they are technically constructs, demonic autos are animated by a fell presence from beyond Shadow. They gain skills and feats as if they were outsiders, and they have an Intelligence score.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 20/+1 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A demonic auto ignores the first 20 points of damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vehicle Movement: }{\fs20\cf0 The demoni
c car moves as a vehicle, not as a character. It has a top speed of 320 squares at character scale (32 squares at chase scale). It maneuvers as a vehicle, using its Drive score, and it must choose a speed category (alley, street, highway, or all-out speed
) at the beginning of each action. The demonic auto\rquote s speed category may increase its Defense and penalize skill checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 No Limbs: }{\fs20\cf0 The demonic auto has no limbs and thus can\rquote t grapple, nor can it manipulate or throw an object. However, it can open and close its car doors, hood, or trunk rapidly to make a slam attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trample (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The demonic auto can trample smaller creatures by running over them. The demonic auto\rquote s trample attack deals 2d6+9 points of damage if traveling at alley speed and 4d6+9 points of 
damage at higher speeds. A successful Reflex save (DC 23) halves the damage. The demonic auto takes this damage as well, but its damage reduction applies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repairable: }{\fs20\cf0 Demonic autos cannot heal damage on their own but can be repaired using the Repair skill.
 A successful Repair check (DC 30) heals 1d10 points of damage, and each check represents 1 hour of work. A demonic auto can repair itself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Demonic autos can see in the dark up to 120 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and demonic auros can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Demonic Auto: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 13; Huge construct; HD 15d10+40; hp 102; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 400 ft. (320 squares as vehicle); Defense 24, touch 9, flat-footed 23 (\endash 2 size, +1 Dex, +15 natural); BAB +11; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +15 melee (1d6+9, slam); Full Atk +15/+10/+5 melee (1d6+6, slam); FS 10 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, outsider traits, damage reduction 20/+1, vehicle movement, no limbs, trample (2d6+9 alley s
peed or 4d6+9 at higher speeds), repairable, darkvision 120 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 13, Con \emdash , Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +15, Drive +21, Hide +3, Navigate +18, Repair +10, Sense Motive +18, Spot +18.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Drive-By Attack, Force Stop, Vehicle Dodge, Vehicle Expert.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 16\endash 25 HD (Huge); 26\endash 45 (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Demonic Auto (Semi Truck): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 16; Gargantuan construct; HD 26d10+80; hp 223; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 400 ft. (320 squares as vehicle); Defense 26, touch 7, flatfooted 25 (\endash 4 size, +1 Dex, +19 natural); BAB +18; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +25 melee (1d8+15, slam); Full Atk +25/+20/+15/+10 melee (1d8+10, slam); FS 10 ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, outsider traits, da
mage reduction 20/+1, vehicle movement, no limbs, trample (DC 33; 2d8+15 at alley speed or 4d8+15 at higher speeds), repairable, darkvision 120 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +10, Ref +9, Will +10; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 13, Con \emdash 
, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +22, Drive +32, Hide +10, Intimidate +19, Navigate +25, Repair +25, Sense Motive +25, Spot +29.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Drive-By Attack, Great Fortitude, Force Stop, Iron Will, Vehicle Dodge, Vehicle Expert, Weapon Focus (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\i\fs20\cf0 Flame job }{\fs20\cf0 (see Chapter Four: Magic Items).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Donkey
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Donkeys are surefooted and sturdy. They can carry up to 50 pounds as a light load, 51\endash 100 pounds as a medium load, and 101\endash 150 pounds as a heavy load. A donkey can drag 750 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Donkeys have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Donkeys can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the donkey to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 Donkeys gain a +2 species bonus on Balance checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Donkey: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/6; Medium animal; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 12; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 1
3, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (+1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +1; Atk +1 melee (1d3, bite); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent; AL none or owner; SV Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, De
x 13, Con 12, Int 1, Wis 11, Cha 4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Balance +3, Listen +5, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dragon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All dragons speak their own language, Draconic. They speak a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dragons have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Age Categories: }{\fs20\cf0 Dragons have twelve age categories that broadly define most of their statistics, including size, Hit Dice, Defense, attacks, and special abilities. As a dragon ages, it grows more powerful, as defined in 
Table: Dragon Age Categories.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Breath Weapon (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Using a breath weapon is a standard action. Once a dragon breathes, it can\rquote t breathe again until 1d4 rounds later. A blast from a breath weapon always starts at the dragon\rquote 
s mouth and extends in a direction of the dragon\rquote 
s choice, with an area as noted in Table: Dragon Breath Weapon Range. If the breath weapon deals damage, creatures caught in the area can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage; the DC depends on the dragon\rquote 
s age. Saves against nondamaging breath weapons use the same DC, but aren\rquote t necessarily Reflex saves.
\par Breath weapons are either cones (which are as high and wide as they are long) or lines (5 feet high and 5 feet wide).
\par Each dragon has one breath weapon, which is associated with the color of its scales and its allegiance to good or evil.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fear Aura (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A young adult or older dragon can unsettle foes with its mere presence. The ability takes effect automatically whenever the dragon attacks or flies overhead. Creatures within a radius of 30 feet x the dragon
\rquote s age category are subject to the effect if they have fewer Hit Dice than the dragon.
\par A potentially affected creature that succeeds at a Will save (DC noted in Table: Dragon Age Categories) remains immune to that dragon\rquote 
s fear aura for one day. On a failure, creatures with 4 or fewer HD become panicked for 4d6 rounds and those with 5 or more HD become shaken for 4d6 rounds. Dragons ignore the fear aura of other dragons.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crush (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A flying or jumping dr
agon of at least Huge size can land on opponents as an attack action, using its whole body to crush them. Crush attacks are effective only against opponents three or more sizes smaller than the dragon (though it can attempt normal overrun or grapple attac
ks against larger opponents).
\par A crush attack affects as many cratures as can fit under the dragon\rquote s body. Creatures in the affected area must succeed at a Reflex save (DC noted in Table: Dragon Age Categories) or be pinned and automatically take the listed 
damage during the next round unless the dragon moves off them. If the dragon chooses to maintain the pin, treat it as a normal grapple attack. Pinned opponents take crush damage each round if they don\rquote t escape.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grappling: }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon can always use its breath weapon while grappling, as well as its spells and spell-like or supernatural abilities, provided it succeeds at Concentration checks.
\par If grappled by a creature the same size or larger, a dragon can attack the grappling creature with its bite and all four 
limbs (each doing claw damage). If crushed by a larger dragon, a dragon can respond only with grapple attacks, or with bite or breath weapon attacks. If grappled by a creature smaller than itself, the dragon can respond with any of its physical attacks ot
her than a tail sweep.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tail Sweep (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon of at least Gargantuan size can sweep with its tail as a standard action. The sweep affect a half circle with a diameter of 30 feet, centered on the dragon\rquote s rear. A Colossal dragon\rquote 
s tail sweep has a 40-foot radius.
\par Creatures within the swept area are affected if they are four or more sizes smaller than the dragon. The sweep deals the damage listed in Table: Dragon Age Categories; a successful Reflex save halves the damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells: }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon knows and casts arcane spells as a Mage of the level indicated on Table: Dragon Spells and Spell-like Abilities, gaining bonus spells for a high Intelligence score.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 A young or older dragon gains a spell-like ability upon reaching its new age category, 
as noted in Table: Dragon Spell-like Abilities. Once the dragon selects a spell-like ability for a given age category, it cannot swap that ability for another. The dragon retains all previously selected spell-like abilities and uses its age category as it
s caster level. The save DC is 10 + the dragon\rquote s Charisma modifier + spell level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 As dragons age, they become more resistant to spells and spell-like abilities, as listed in Table: Dragon Age Categories.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 All dragons are immune to }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 and paralysis effects. Dragons are also immune to certain energy types depending on their color:
\par Black, green, and copper dragons are immune to acid.
\par Blue and bronze dragons are immune to electricity.
\par Red, brass, and gold dragons are immune to fire and take 50% more damage against cold-based attacks on a failed save.
\par White and silver dragons are immune to cold and take 50% more damage against fire-based attacks on a failed save.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blindsight (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon can ascertain creatures by nonvisual means (mostly hearing and scent, but also by noticing vibration and other environmental clues) with a range of 30 feet x the dragon\rquote s age category.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen Senses (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A dragon has low-light vision and darkvision with a range of 100 feet x the dragon\rquote s age category.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10461 \cellx10353\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Table: Dragon Age Categories\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10461 \cellx10353\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Category\cell Age in Years\cell Size\cell Base Hit Dice\cell Breath Weapon\cell Fear Aura
\cell Crush\cell Tail Sweep\cell SR\cell DR\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 Wyrmling\cell 0\endash 5\cell Small\cell 7d12\cell 2d8 
\par (DC 14)\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 Very young\cell 6\endash 15\cell Medium\cell 10d12\cell 4d8 
\par (DC 17)\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3 Young\cell 16\endash 25\cell Medium\cell 13d12\cell 6d8 
\par (DC 18)\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4 Juvenile\cell 26\endash 50\cell Large\cell 16d12\cell 8d8 
\par (DC 21)\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5 Young adult\cell 51\endash 100\cell Large\cell 19d12\cell 10d8 (DC 23)\cell 
150 ft. (DC 23)\cell \emdash \cell \emdash \cell 20\cell 5/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6 Adult\cell 101\endash 200\cell Huge\cell 22d12\cell 12d8 (DC 26)\cell 
180 ft. (DC 26)\cell 2d8+12 (DC 26)\cell \emdash \cell 22\cell 5/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7 Mature adult\cell 201\endash 400\cell Huge\cell 25d12\cell 14d8 (DC 27)\cell 
210 ft. (DC 27)\cell 2d8+13 (DC 27)\cell \emdash \cell 24\cell 10/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8 Old\cell 401\endash 600\cell Huge\cell 28d12\cell 16d8 (DC 30)\cell 240 ft. (DC 30)
\cell 2d8+15 (DC 30)\cell \emdash \cell 26\cell 10/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9 Very old\cell 601\endash 800\cell Huge\cell 31d12\cell 18d8 (DC 31)\cell 
270 ft. (DC 32)\cell 2d8+16 (DC 31)\cell \emdash \cell 27\cell 15/+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10 Ancient\cell 801\endash 1,000\cell Gargantuan\cell 34d12\cell 20d8 (DC 34)\cell 
300 ft. (DC 35)\cell 4d6+18 (DC 34)\cell 2d6+18 (DC 34)\cell 29\cell 15/+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11 King/Queen\cell 1,001\endash 1,200\cell Gargantuan\cell 37d12\cell 22d8 (DC 36)
\cell 330 ft. (DC 37)\cell 4d6+21 (DC 36)\cell 2d6+21 (DC 36)\cell 30\cell 20/+3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4803\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 12 Emperor/ Empress\cell 1,201+\cell Colossal\cell 40d12\cell 24d8 (DC 39)\cell 360 ft. (DC 40)\cell 4d8+24 (DC 39)\cell 2d8+24 (DC 39)\cell 32\cell 20/+3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10461\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1414\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1244 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3807\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4803\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth953 \cellx5756\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth960 \cellx6716\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1076 \cellx7792\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1204 \cellx8996\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth572 \cellx9568\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth785 \cellx10353\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Dragon Breath Weapon Range\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4002\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Dragon Size\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Line (Length)\cell Cone (Length)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Tiny\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 30 ft.\cell 15 ft.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Small\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 40 ft.\cell 20 ft.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 60 ft.\cell 30 ft.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 80 ft.\cell 40 ft.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 100 ft.\cell 50 ft.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Gargantuan\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 120 ft.\cell 60 ft.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4002\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Colossal\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 140 ft.\cell 70 ft.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1147\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2547\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4002\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10424 \cellx10316\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Dragon Breath Weapon Types}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth10424 \cellx10316\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Type\cell Dragon Color\cell Allegiance\cell Notes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalb\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Line of acid\cell Black\cell Evil\cell Damage by age category (see Table: Dragon Age Categories)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Line of electricity\cell Blue\cell Evil
\cell Damage by age category (see Table: Dragon Age Categories)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of acid\cell Green\cell Evil\cell Damage by age category (see Table: Dragon Age Categories)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of fire\cell Red\cell Evil\cell Damage by age category (see Table: Dragon Age Categories)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of cold\cell White\cell Evil\cell 
Damage by age category (see Table: Dragon Age Categories)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of sleep gas\cell Brass\cell Good\cell Will save or fall asleep for 1d6 rounds + 1 round per dragon age category\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of repulsion gas\cell Bronze\cell 
Good\cell Will save or move away for 1d6 rounds + 1 round per dragon age category\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of slow gas\cell Copper\cell Good\cell Fortitude save or slowed (as }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 spell) for 1d6 rounds + 1 round per dragon age category\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Cone of weakening gas\cell Gold\cell 
Good\cell Fortitude save or take 1 point of temporary Strength damage per dragon age category\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Cone of paralysis gas\cell Silver\cell Good\cell Fortitude save or paralyzed for 1d6 rounds + 1 round per dragon age category\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth10424\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2103 \cellx1995\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth871 \cellx2866\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1160 \cellx4026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth6290 \cellx10316\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Dragon Spells And Spell-Like Abilities\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8084\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Age Category\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Caster Level*\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 New Spell-like Ability (choose one)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Wyrmling\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Very young\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Young\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 1st\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Daze }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Juvenile\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2nd\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Sleep }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Young adult\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 3rd\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{
\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Adult\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 4th\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Mature adult\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Old\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 6th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
water breathing }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Very old\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 
or }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor globe of invulnerability }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Ancient\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8th\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Confusion }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 freedom of movement }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Dragon King/Queen\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Dragon Emperor/Empress\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10th\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Cloudkill }{\fs20\cf0 or }{
\i\fs20\cf0 telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2202\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3601\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 *}{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster level applies to arcane spells and spell-like abilities.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx8084\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wyrmling: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Small dragon; H
D 7d12+7; hp 52; Mas 13; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 100 ft. (average); Defense 17, touch 11, flat-footed 17 (+1 size, +6 natural); BAB +7; Grap +4; Atk +9 melee (1d6+1, bite); Full Atk +9 melee (1d6+1, bite), +4 melee (1d4, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reac
h 5 ft.; SQ breath weapon, immunities, blindsight 30 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 100 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +9, Diplomacy +9, Hide +4, Jump +8, Knowledge (arcane lore) +9, Listen +9, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any two), Search +9, Sense Motive +9, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any two), Spot +9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Cleave, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Very Young Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Medium dragon; HD 10d12+20; hp 85; Mas 15;
 Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 19, touch 10, flat-footed 19 (+9 natural); BAB +10; Grap +12; Atk +12 melee (1d8+3, bite); Full Atk +12 melee (1d8+2, bite), +7 melee (1d6+1, 2 claws), +7 melee (1d4+1, 2 wings); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5
 ft.; SQ breath weapon, immunities, blindsight 60 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 200 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +7, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 10, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +10, Diplomacy +10, Jump +10, Knowledge (arcane lore) +10, Listen +12, Read/Write Draconic, Read/ Write Language (any two), Search +10, Sense Motive +10, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any two), Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Young Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; Medium dragon; HD 13d12+26; hp 110; Mas
 18; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 22, touch 10, flat-footed 22 (+12 natural); BAB +13; Grap +16; Atk +16 melee (1d8+4, bite); Full Atk +16 melee (1d8+3, bite), +11 melee (1d6+1, 2 claws), +11 melee (1d4+1, 2 wings); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; 
Reach 5 ft.; SQ breath weapon, spells, spell-like ability, immunities, blindsight 90 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 300 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +10, Ref +8, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 10, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 16.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +3, B
luff +12, Diplomacy +12, Jump +12, Knowledge (arcane lore) +12, Listen +14, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any three), Search +12, Sense Motive +12, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any three), Spot +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (3/2): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 ray of fatigue, sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Ability: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 13) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Juvenile Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 10; Large dragon; HD 16d12+48; hp 152; Mas 20; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 24, touch 9, flat-footed 24 (\endash 
1 size, +15 natural); BAB +16; Grap +24; Atk +19 melee (2d6+6, bite); Full Atk +19 melee (2d6+4, bite), +14 melee (1d8+2, 2 cla
ws), +14 melee (1d6+2, 2 wings), +14 melee (1d8+6, tail slap); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, blindsight 120 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 400 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +13, Ref +10, Will +14
; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 19, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 18, Wis 19, Cha 18.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +5, Bluff +14, Diplomacy +14, Hide \endash 4, Jump +14, Knowledge (arcane lore) +14, Knowledge (history) +5, Listen +16, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any four), Sear
ch +14, Sense Motive +14, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any four), Spot +16.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/3): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, ray of fatigue, shield}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Young Adult Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 13; Large dragon; HD 19d12+76; hp 199; Mas 22; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 27, touch 9, flat-footed 27 (\endash 1 size, +18 
natural); BAB +19; Grap +29; Atk +24 melee (2d6+9, bite); Full Atk +24 melee (2d6+6, bite), +19 melee (1d8+3, 2 claws), +19 melee (1d6+3, 2 wings), +19 melee (1d8+9, tail slap); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 150 ft., spell
s, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 20, damage reduction 5/+1, blindsight }{\fs60\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 150 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 500 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +15, Ref +11, Will +15; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 10, Con 19, Int 18, Wis 19, Cha 18.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +7, Bluff +15, Diplomacy +15, Hide \endash 
4, Jump +17, Knowledge (arcane lore) +15, Knowledge (history) +6, Listen +17, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any four), Search +15, Sense Motive +15, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any four), Spot +17.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/3/2): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, ray of fatigue, shield; }{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 enhance ability, web }{
\fs20\cf0 (DC 16).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 16).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Adult Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 15; Huge dragon; HD 22d12+110; hp 253; Mas 24; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 29, touch 8, flat-footed 29 (\endash 2 size, +21 n
atural); BAB +22; Grap +38; Atk +28 melee (2d8+12, bite); Full Atk +28 melee (2d8+8, bite), +23 melee (2d6+4, 2 claws), +23 melee (1d8+4, 2 wings), +23 melee (2d6+12, tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 180 ft., crus
h 2d8+12, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 22, damage reduction 5/+1, blindsight 180 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 600 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +18, Ref +13, Will +18; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 27, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 20, Wis 21, Cha 20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +9, Bluff +17, Diplomacy +17, Hide \endash 
8, Jump +20, Knowledge (arcane lore) +17, Knowledge (current events) +6, Knowledge (history) +8, Listen +19, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any five), Search +17, Sense Motive +17, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any five), Spot +19.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/5/3): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue, shield, true strike; }{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{
\i\fs20\cf0 enhance ability, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 16) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Mature Adult Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 18; Huge dragon; HD 25d12+125; hp 287; Mas 24; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 32, touch 8, flat-footed 32 (\endash 2 size, +24 natural); BAB +25; Grap +42; Atk +32 melee (
2d8+13, bite); Full Atk +32 melee (2d8+9, bite), +27 melee (2d6+4, 2 claws), +27 melee (1d8+4, 2 wings), +27 melee (2d6+13, tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 210 ft., crush 2d8+13, spells, spell-like abilities, imm
unities, SR 24, damage reduction 10/+1, blindsight 210 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 700 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +19, Ref +14, Will +19; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 29, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 20, Wis 21, Cha 20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +10, Bluff +18, Diplomacy +18, Hide \endash 
8, Jump +22, Knowledge (arcane lore) +18, Knowledge (current events) +7, Knowledge (history) +9, Listen +20, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any five), Search +18, Sense Motive +18, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any five), Spot +20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/5/3/2): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue, shield, true strike; }{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{
\i\fs20\cf0 enhance ability, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17); 3rd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, haste}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 16) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 .

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Old Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 20; Huge dragon; HD 28d12+168; hp 350; Mas 26; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 35, touch 8, flat-footed 35 (\endash 
2 size, +27 natural); BAB +28; Grap +46; Atk +36 melee (2d8+15, bite); Full Atk +36 melee (2d8+10, bit
e), +31 melee (2d6+5, 2 claws), +31 melee (1d8+5, 2 wings), +31 melee (2d6+15, tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 240 ft., crush 2d8+15, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 26, damage reduction 10/+1, blind
sight 240 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 800 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +22, Ref +16, Will +22; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 10, Con 23, Int 22, Wis 23, Cha 22.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +13, Bluff +20, Diplomacy +20, Hide \endash 8, Jump +24, Knowledge (arcane lore) +20, 
Knowledge (current events) +9, Knowledge (history) +11, Listen +22, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any six), Search +20, Sense Motive +20, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any six), Spot +22.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/5/5/3): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue, shield, true strike; }{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{
\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, enhance ability, resist energy, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 18); 3rd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, displacement, haste}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 16) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 18), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , }{
\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 water breathing}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Very Old Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 21; Huge dragon; HD 31d12+186; hp 387; Mas 26; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 150 ft. (poor); Defense 38, touch 8, flat-footed 38 (\endash 
2 size, +30 natural); BAB +31; Grap +50; Atk +40 melee (2d8+16, bite); Full Atk +40 melee (2d8+11, bite), +38 melee (2d6+5, 2 claws), +38 melee (1d8+5, 2 wings), +38 melee (2d6+16, tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura
 
270 ft., crush 2d8+16, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 27, damage reduction 15/+2, blindsight 270 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 900 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +23, Ref +17, Will +24; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 33, Dex 10, Con 23, Int 24, Wis 25, Cha 24
.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +15, Bluff +22, Diplomacy +22, Hide \endash 
8, Jump +26, Knowledge (arcane lore) +22, Knowledge (current events) +12, Knowledge (history) +13, Listen +24, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any seven), Search +22, Sense Motive +22, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any seven), Spot +24.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Multiattack, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/6/5/3/2): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield, true strike; }{
\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, enhance ability, resist energy, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19); 3rd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, displacement, haste; }{\fs20\cf0 4th\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 stoneskin, wall of ice }{\fs20\cf0 
(DC 21).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 18) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , }{
\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 water breathing}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Ancient Dragon: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 23; Gargantuan dragon; HD 34d12+238; hp 459; Mas 28; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 200 ft. (clumsy); Defense 39, touch 6, flat-footed 39 (\endash 
4 size, +33 natural); BAB +34; Grap +58; Atk +42 melee (4d6+18, bite); Full Atk +42 melee (4d6+12, bite), +40 mele
e (2d8+6, 2 claws), +40 melee (2d6+6, 2 wings), +40 melee (2d8+18, tail slap); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 300 ft., crush 4d6+18, tail sweep 2d6+18, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 29, damage reduction 15/+2
, blindsight 300 ft., lowlight vision, darkvision 1,000 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +26, Ref +19, Will +27; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 35, Dex 10, Con 25, Int 26, Wis 27, Cha 26.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +18, Bluff +24, Diplomacy +24, Hide \endash 12, Jump +28, Knowledge (arcane lo
re) +24, Knowledge (current events) +15, Knowledge (history) +16, Listen +26, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any eight), Search +24, Sense Motive +24, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any eight), Spot +26.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Multiattack, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/6/5/4/3): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield, true strike; }{
\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, enhance ability, resist energy, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 20); 3rd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, displacement, haste, slow }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21); 4th\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 
ice storm, stoneskin, wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 22).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 18) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 20), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , }{
\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 water breathing}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 22) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
freedom of movement}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dragon King/Queen: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 24; Gargantuan dragon; HD 37d12+333; hp 573; Mas 32; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 200 ft. (clumsy); Defense 42, touch 6, flat-footed 42 (\endash 
4 size, +36 natural); BAB +37; Grap +63; Atk +47 melee (4d6+21, bite); Full Atk +47 melee (4d6+14, bite), +45 melee (2d
8+7, 2 claws), +45 melee (2d6+7, 2 wings), +45 melee (2d8+21, tail slap); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear aura 330 ft., crush 4d6+21, tail sweep 2d6+21, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 30, damage reduction 20/+3, bli
ndsight 330 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 1,100 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +29, Ref +20, Will +29; AP 0; Rep +3; Str 39, Dex 10, Con 29, Int 28, Wis 29, Cha 28.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +22, Bluff +26, Diplomacy +26, Hide \endash 12, Jump +31, Knowledge (arcane lore) 
+26, Knowledge (current events) +18, Knowledge (history) +20, Listen +28, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any nine), Search +26, Sense Motive +26, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any nine), Spot +28.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Multiattack, Power Attack, Renown, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/6/6/4/3/2): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield, true strike; 
}{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, enhance ability }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21); 3rd\emdash  }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, displacement, haste, slow }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 22); 4th\emdash }{
\i\fs20\cf0 ice storm, stoneskin, wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23); 5th\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold monster }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 24), }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 19) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 20) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , }{
\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 water breathing}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
freedom of movement}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dragon Emperor/Empress: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 26; Colossal dragon; HD 40d12+400; hp 660; Mas 34; Init +0; Spd 40 ft., fly 200 ft. (clumsy); Defense 41, touch 2, flat-footed 41 (\endash 
8 size, +39 natural); BAB +40; Grap +72; Atk +52 melee (4d8+24, bite); Full Atk +52 melee (4d8+16, bite), +50 melee (4d6+8, 2 claws), +50 melee (2d8+8, 2 wings), +50 melee (4d6+24, tail slap); FS 30 ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ breath weapon, fear a
ura 360 ft., crush 4d8+24, tail sweep 2d8+24, spells, spell-like abilities, immunities, SR 32, damage reduction 20/+3, blindsight 360 ft., low-light vision, darkvision 1,200 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +32, Ref +22, Will +32; AP 0; Rep +3; Str 43, Dex 10, Con 3
1, Int 30, Wis 31, Cha 30.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +25, Bluff +28, Diplomacy +28, Hide \endash 
16, Jump +34, Knowledge (arcane lore) +28, Knowledge (current events) +23, Knowledge (history) +23, Listen +30, Read/Write Draconic, Read/Write Language (any ten), Search +28, Sense Motive +28, Speak Draconic, Speak Language (any ten), Spot +30.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Damage Threshold, Multiattack, Power Attack, Renown, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells Prepared }{\fs20\cf0 (4/6/6/4/4/3): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage armor, magic missile, ray of fatigue }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 shield, true strike; 
}{\fs20\cf0 2nd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane lock, enhance ability }{\fs20\cf0 (2), }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy, spider climb, web }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 22); 3rd\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic, displacement, haste, slow }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 23); 4th\emdash }{
\i\fs20\cf0 dimension door, ice storm}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 stoneskin, wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 24); 5th\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 cone of cold }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25)}{\i\fs20\cf0 , hold monster }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25), }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{
\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 daze }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 20) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 21) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 
locate object }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 22), }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 , }{
\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 water breathing}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 arcane eye }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 confusion }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 24) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
freedom of movement}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing}{\fs20\cf0 , }{\i\fs20\cf0 cloudkill }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 25).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Drow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Drow speak, read, and write Elven, a beautiful language they\rquote ve corrupted with their own vile idioms and inflections.
\par Many drow also understand one or more local languages. Particularly intelligent drow also speak, read, and write any of the following Shadow languages: Abyssal, Aquan, Draconic, Gnome, Goblin, and Undertongue.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Drow have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Drow can see in the dark up to 120 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and drow can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light Blindness (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Abrupt exposure to bright light (such as sunlight or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 daylight }{\fs20\cf0 spell) blinds a drow for 1 round. In addition, drow take a \endash 
1 circumstance penalty on all attack rolls, saves, and checks while operating in bright light.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Immunities: }{\fs20\cf0 Drow are immune to }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 spells and effects, and they gain a +2 species bon
us on saves against Enchantment spells or effects. They also gain a +2 species bonus on Will saves against spells and spell-like abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A drow gains Spell Resistance equal to 11 + her character level (if any).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Drow
 gain a +2 species bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. A drow who merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door is entitled to a Search check (as a free action) to notice it as if she were actively looking for the door.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Drow receive Archaic Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Drow: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8\endash 1; hp 3; Mas 8; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 11, touch 11, flat-footed 10 (+1 Dex); BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/19\endash 
20, machete); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/19\endash 20, machete) or +1 ranged (1 plus poison, shuriken); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 120 ft., light blindness, spell immunities, SR 11; AL varies;
 SV Fort \endash 1, Ref +1, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 13, Con 8, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Craft (chemical) +3, Hide +3, Listen +2, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write Language (any one), Search +4, Speak Elven, Speak Language (any one), Spot +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Machete, 6 spider-shaped shuriken (coated with blue vitriol poison*), casual clothes, cell phone, flash goggles (negates light blindness when worn).
\par *}{\i\fs20\cf0 Blue vitriol poison: Injury; Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; initial and secondary 1d2 Con.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Drow Fast Hero 2: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 2d8; hp 12; Mas 10; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 17, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +4 class); BAB +1; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6
\endash 1/19\endash 20, machete); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6\endash 1/19\endash 20, machete) or +5 ranged (2d6, Glock 17) or +4 ranged (1d4/19\endash 
20 plus poison, hand crossbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 120 ft., light blindness, spell immunities, SR 13; AL varies; SV Fort +0, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 13, Cha 12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Drive +7, Hide +8, Knowledge (streetwise) +7, Listen +6, Move Silently +8, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write Language (any three), Search +6, Sleight of Hand +8, Speak Elven, Speak Language (any three), Spot +6, Tumble +8. 

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Defensive Martial Arts, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Fast Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Evasion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Machete, Glock 17 (9mm autoloader
), 3 box magazines of 9mm ammunition (for Glock 17), hand crossbow with 12 bolts (coated with blue vitriol poison*), casual clothes, cell phone, flash goggles (negates light blindness when worn).
\par *}{\i\fs20\cf0 Blue vitriol poison: Injury; Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; initial and secondary 1d2 Con.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dryad
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dryads have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 At will\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 entangle }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 13), }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with plants, tree shape; }{\fs20\cf0 3/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 charm person }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 13), }{\i\fs20\cf0 deep slumber }{
\fs20\cf0 (DC 15), }{\i\fs20\cf0 tree stride; }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15)}{\i\fs20\cf0 . }{\fs20\cf0 6th-level caster. The save DCs are Wisdom-based.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tree Dependent (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Each dryad is mystically bound to a single, enormous tree, or a copse of trees situated in one place (such as a lobby atrium) and must never stray more than 300 yards from it. Any who d
o stray from their trees become ill and die within 4d6 hours. A dryad\rquote s tree does not radiate magic.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wild Empathy (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A dryad can use body language, vocalizations, and demeanor to improve the attitude of an animal. This ability functions like a Diplomacy
 check made to improve the attitude of a person. The dryad rolls 1d20 +10 (+6 species bonus, +4 Charisma bonus) to determine the wild empathy check result. The typical domestic animal has a starting attitude of indifferent, while wild animals are usually 
unfriendly.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dryad: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 3; Medium fey; HD 4d6; hp 14; Mas 11; Init +8; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 12, flat-footed 13 (+4 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +1; Grap +1; Atk +2 melee (1d4, dagger) or +6 ranged (1d8, masterwork longbow); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, dagger) 
or +6 ranged (1d8, masterwork longbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ DR 5/+1, spell-like abilities, tree dependent, wild empathy; AL chaotic good, nature; SV Fort +3, Ref +8, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 19, Con 11, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 18.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Escape Artist +11, Handle Animal +11, Hide +11, Knowledge (life science) +11, Listen +9, Move Silently +11, Ride +6, Spot +9, Survival +9. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Great Fortitude, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 4 HD (Medium).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dwarf
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves speak Dwarven. Those of particular intelligence (and good breeding) may speak other languages, including the following Shadow languages: Giant, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, and Undertongue.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speed: }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves have 
a base speed of 20 feet. However, dwarves can move at this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or heavy load (unlike other creatures, whose speed is reduced in such situations).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Combat Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves gain a +1 
species bonus on attack rolls against bugbears, goblins, orcs, and  other goblinoids. Dwarves also gain a +4 dodge bonus to Defense against creatures of the giant type. If a dwarf loses his positive Dexterity bonus to Defense (such as when flatfooted), th
is dodge bonus is lost.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stability: }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves gain a +4 species bonus on ability checks to resist bulll rush and trip attempts when standing on the ground (but not when climbing, flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly on the ground).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and dwarves can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw Bonuses}{\fs20\cf0 : Dwarves are highly resistant to toxins and innately resistant to magic. They gain a +2 species bonus on saving throws against poisons, spells, and spell-like abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves gain a +2 species bonus on Search checks to notice unusual stonework, n
ew construction, unsafe surfaces, ceilings, and the like. A dwarf who merely passes within 10 feet of such exceptional construction can, as a free action, make a Search check (DC 15) as though he were actively searching for such.
\par Dwarves are naturally skilled mechanics and engineers. They gain a +2 species bonus on Craft (mechanical), Craft (structural), and Repair checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Dwarves gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. Dwarves may treat dwarven urgroshes and dwarven waraxes as archaic weapons instead of exotic weapons.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dwarf: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 13; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 10, flatfooted 10; BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed
 strike) or +0 melee (1d6/x4, pickaxe); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/x4, pickaxe) or +0 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, stability, darkvision 60 ft.; AL varies; SV Fort +3, Ref +0, W
ill +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Craft (mechanical) +5, Craft (structural) +4, Listen +2, Read/Write Dwarven, Repair +3, Speak Dwarven, Spot +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Educated (mechanical, structural).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Pickaxe, casual clothes, cell phone, multipurpose tool.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dwarf Dedicated Hero 1/Tough Hero 1: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d6+3 plus 1d10+3 plus 1 (robust); hp 18; Mas 17; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 12, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (\endash 
1 Dex, +2 class, +1 leather jacket); BAB +0; Grap +1; Atk +1 melee (1d3+1, brass knuckles) or +0 melee (1d10+1/x3, dwarven waraxe); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3+1, brass knuckles) or +1 melee (1d10+1/x3, dwarven waraxe) or \endash 1 
ranged (2d6, dynamite stick); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, stability, darkvision 60 ft.; AL varies; SV Fort +5, Ref \endash 1, Will +3; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 8, Con 17, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Craft (mechanical) +6, Craft 
(structural) +6, Drive +1, Knowledge (art) +3, Knowledge (current events) +3, Listen +6, Profession (any one) +6, Read/Write Dwarven, Read/Write Language (any one), Repair +3, Speak Dwarven, Speak Language (any one), Spot +6, Survival +9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Educated (mechanical, structural), Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Dedicated Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Skill emphasis (Survival).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Tough Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Robust.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Leather jacket, dwarven waraxe, 6 sticks of dynamite, brass knuckles, casual clothes, cell phone, multipurpose tool, lighter.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Eagle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Eagles include other large birds of prey and raptors. They are typically 3 feet long and have a wingspan of about 7 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Eagles have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Eagles can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Eagles gain a +8 species bonus on Spot checks during daylight.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Eagles gain the bonus feats Weapon Finesse (bite) and Weapon Finesse (claw).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Eagle: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Small animal; HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 12; Init +2; Spd 10 ft., fly 80 ft. (average); Defense 14, touch 13, flatfooted 12 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
4; Atk +3 melee (1d3, claw); Full Atk +3 melee (1d3, 2 claws), \endash 2 melee (1d4 bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision; SV Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +6, Listen +7, Spot +7 (+15 during daylight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (claw, bite).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 2\endash 3 HD (Medium); 4\endash 6 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Efreeti
\par }{\fs20\cf0 An efreeti typically uses its }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 
ability to conceal its true form: that of a 12-foot-tall giant with brick-red skin, fiery eyes, small horns, and jutting tusks. The average efreeti weighs about 2,000 pounds. Efreet read, write, and speak Auran, Ignan, and Infernal, and one or more common
 or local languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Efreet have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Heat (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An efreeti deals 1d6 points of additional fire damage whenever it hits in melee or each round it maintains a hold while grappling.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura, gaseous form, invisibility, wall of fire }{\fs20\cf0 
(save DC 16). These abilities are as the spells cast by a 10th-level Mage (save DC 12 + spell level). The DCs are Charisma-based.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Polymorph }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 An efreeti can cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph}{\fs20\cf0 , at will, as a move action. This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation except that no skill checks or components are required, the efreeti cannot transform any creature other than itself, and the efreeti can remain in its new form indefinitely.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Grant Wishes }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 Some efreeti (1% of the total population) are \'93noble\'94
 and can grant up to three wishes to any being (non-genies only) who captures them. Noble efreet perform no other services and, upon granting the third wish, are free of their servitude. Whenever possible, an efreeti wil
l twist the words of a wish to bring pain and destruction upon the wisher. A wish can produce any one of the following effects, at the GM\rquote s discretion:
\par \bullet  Duplicate any spell, psionic power, or incantation (including }{\i\fs20\cf0 raise dead}{\fs20\cf0 ).
\par \bullet  Undo the harmful effects of a spell, psionic power, or incantation.
\par \bullet  Increase one creature\rquote s Wealth bonus by +20.
\par \bullet  Bequeath one nonmagical item with a purchase DC of 60 or less.
\par \bullet  Bequeath one magic item with a purchase DC of 45 or less.
\par \bullet  Remove all injuries and afflictions affecting one creature.
\par \bullet  Transport a number of creatures equal to the efreeti\rquote s Hit Dice to any place the wisher chooses.
\par \bullet  Undo a single recent event.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities: }{\fs20\cf0 Efreet are immune to fire.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cold Vulnerability: }{\fs20\cf0 Efreet take 50% more damage when they fail a save against any cold-based attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telepathy (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 An efreeti can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Efreet can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and efreet can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Efreeti: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; Large outsider; HD 10d8+20; hp 65; Mas 14; Init +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 20 ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 12, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
1 size, +3 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +10; Grap +20; Atk +15 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 fire, slam); Full Atk +15/+10 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 fire, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ heat, spell-like abilities, }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 
(self only), immune to fire, cold vulnerability, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft.; AL evil, law; SV Fort +9, Ref +10, Will +9; Str 23, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +12, Concentration +12, Cra
ft (any one) +8, Escape Artist +11, Intimidate +13, Listen +12, Move Silently +11, Read/Write Auran, Read/Write Ignan, Read/Write Infernal, Read/Write Language (any one), Sense Motive +11, Speak Auran, Speak Ignan, Speak Infernal, Speak Language (any one)
, Spellcraft +9, Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 11\endash 15 HD (Large); 16\endash 30 HD (Huge); or as character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Efreeti Archaic Weaponsmaster 5 (Efreeti Noble): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 13; Large outsider; HD 10d8+20 plus 5d10+10; hp 112; Mas 14; Init +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 20 ft. (perfect); Defense 21, touch 15, flat-footed 18 (\endash 
1 size, +3 Dex, +6 natural, +3 class); BAB +13; Grap +23; Atk +19 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 fire, slam) or +20 melee (2d6+12/ 18\endash 20 plus 1d6 fire, Huge falchion); Full Atk +19/+14/+9 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 fire, slam) or +20/+15/+10 melee (2d6+12/18
\endash 20 plus 1d6 fire, Huge falchion); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ heat, spell-like abilities, }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 (self only), }{\i\fs20\cf0 grant wishes, }{\fs20\cf0 
immune to fire, cold vulnerability, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft., imbue weapon +1, quick weapon draw, expert in your field (falchions); AL evil, law; SV Fort +13, Ref +11, Will +10; AP 2; Rep +2; Str 24, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +12, Concentration +12, Craft (any one) +8, Escape Artist +7, Intimidate +13, Knowledge (history) +6, Listen +12, Move Silently +11, Read/Write Auran, Read/Write Ignan, Read/Write Infernal, Read/Write Lang
uage (any one), Sense Motive +11, Speak Auran, Speak Ignan, Speak Infernal, Speak Language (any one), Spellcraft +9, Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Improved Disarm, Improved Initiative, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (great falchion), Weapon Specialization (great falchion).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Huge falchion.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Elephant
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Elephants have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trample (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An elephant can trample Medium or smaller creatures for 2d6+15 points of damage. Opponents who do
 not make attacks of opportunity against the elephant can attempt a Reflex save (DC 25) to halve the damage. The mastadon\rquote s trample deals 2d6+18 points of damage (Reflex save, DC 31, for half damage).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the elephant to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Elephants can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Elephant: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; Huge animal; HD 11d8+55; hp 104; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed 15 (\endash 2 size, +7 natural); BAB +8; Grap +26; Atk +16 melee (1d6+15, slam) or +16 melee (2d6+15, gore
); Full Atk +16 melee (1d6+10, slam), +11 melee (2d4+5, 2 stamps) or +16 melee (2d6+15, gore); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ trample 2d6+15, scent, low-light vision; AL None or owner; SV Fort +12, Ref +7, }{\fs16\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 
Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 30, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 8, Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 12\endash 22 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Elephant (Mastadon): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 10; Huge animal; HD 18d8+90; hp 171; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 8, flat-footed 17 (\endash 2 size, +9 
natural); BAB +13; Grap +33; Atk +23 melee (1d6+18, slam) or +23 melee (2d6+18, gore); Full Atk +23 melee (1d6+12, slam), +18 melee (2d4+6, 2 stamps) or +23 melee (2d6+18, gore); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ trample 2d6+18, scent, low-light visio
n; AL none; SV Fort +16, Ref +11, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 34, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 8, Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Elf
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Elves speak, read, and write Elven. Many also take the time to learn one or more
 local languages. Particularly intelligent elves also know one or more Shadow languages, including any of the following: Draconic, Gnoll, Goblin, Gnome, Orc, and Sylvan.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Elves have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Elves can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Immunities: }{\fs20\cf0 Elves are immune to }{\i\fs20\cf0 sleep }{\fs20\cf0 spells and effects, and they gain a +2 species bonus on saves against Enchantment spells or effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Elves gain a +2 species bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. An elf who merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door is entitled to a Search check to
 notice it as if she were actively looking for the door. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Elves gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Elf: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8\endash 1; hp 3; Mas 8; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 11, touch 11, flatfooted 10 (+1 Dex); BAB +0; Grap +0; Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/18\endash 
20, sword cane); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d6/18\endash 20, sword cane) or +1 ranged (1d8, compound bow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, spell immunities; AL varies; SV Fort \endash 
1, Ref +3, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 13, Con 8, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +3, Listen +2, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Elven, Search +2, Speak Elven, Spot +2, Survival +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Point Blank Shot.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Sword cane, compound bow, casual clothes (in urban areas) or fatigues (in rural areas).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Elf Charismatic Hero 4/Arcane Arranger 1: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Medium humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 4d6 plus 1d6; hp 19; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 class); BAB +2; Grap +1; Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal,
 unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun gun) or +5 ranged (2d6, SITES M9); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 
1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun gun) or +5 ranged (2d6, SITES M9); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.
; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, spell immunities, word on the street; AL varies; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +4; AP 2; Rep +5; Str 8, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 10, Cha 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +11, Computer Use +4, Diplomacy +9, Disguise +11, Gather Informatio
n +9, Intimidate +9, Knowledge (arcane lore) +9, Knowledge (current events) +9, Knowledge (popular culture) +9, Knowledge (streetwise) +4, Listen +2, Read/Write Elven, Read/Write Language (any two), Research +4, Search +2, Sense Motive +2, Speak Elven, Sp
eak Language (any two), Spot +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Deceptive, Iron Will, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talents (Charismatic Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Charm, coordinate.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Stun gun, SITES M9 (9mm autoloader), 3 box magazines of 9mm ammunition (for SITES M9), casual clothes, PDA, cell phone, compass, disguise kit.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Gear Golem
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems cannot speak. They typically stand 10 feet tall and weigh 4,000 pounds. A gear golem may be created using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 create golem }{\fs20\cf0 incantation. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Construct: }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems are immune to mind-influencing effects as well as poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect 
also works on objects or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speed: }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems are lumbering constructs that can\rquote t take run actions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 To use this ability, the gear golem must hit an opponent smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it attempts to grind its foe against its spinning gears as a free action (see below).

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Gear Grind (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If the gear golem succes
sfully grapples a creature smaller than itself, it grinds the creature with its spinning gears for 4d8 points of slashing damage each round the grapple is maintained (including the round in which the grapple is first achieved).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Detonate (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 When a gear g
olem is reduced to 0 or fewer hit points, it explodes in a 20-foot-radius burst of serrated gears and shrapnel. The explosion deals 12d8 points of slashing damage to creatures caught in the radius; a successful Reflex save (DC 19) halves the damage.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Immunity (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A gear golem is immune to all spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural effects, except as follows. An electricity effect slows it (as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 slow }{\fs20\cf0 
spell) for 3 rounds, with no saving throw. A fire effect breaks any slow effect on the golem and cures 1 point of damage for each 3 points of damage it would otherwise deal. The golem rolls no saving throw against fire effects.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repairable: }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems cannot heal damage on their own but can be repaired using the Repair skill. A successful Repair 
check (DC 30) heals 1d10 points of damage, and each check represents 1 hour of work. A gear golem cannot repair itself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Gear golems can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and gear golems can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gear Golem: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 11; Large construct; HD18d10+20; hp 119; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft. (can\rquote t run); Defense 30, touch 8, flat-footed 30 (\endash 1 Dex, \endash 1 size, +22 natural); BAB +13; Grap +23; Atk +18 melee (1d8
+9, slam); Full Atk +18 melee (1d8+6, 2 slams); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, improved grab, gear grind, detonate, magic immunity, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or master; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 9, Con 
\emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 11, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 19\endash 24 HD (Large); 25\endash 54 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Gear Golem: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 13; Huge construct; HD 25d10+40; hp 177; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft. (can\rquote t run); Defense 31, touch 6, flat-footed 31 (\endash 2 Dex, \endash 
2 size, +25 natural); BAB +17; Grap +35; Atk +25 melee (2d6+15, slam); Full Atk +25 melee (2d6+10, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, improved grab, gear grind, detonate (30- foot-radius burst; DC 22), magic immunity, darkvision 60
 ft.; AL none or master; SV Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 7, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 11, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Gnome
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes speak their own language, Gnome. They usually take the time to learn one or more local languages as well. Particularly bright gnomes may know additional Shadow languages, including Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, and Orc.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Combat Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes gain a +1 species bonus on attack rolls again
st bugbears, goblins (and other goblinoids), and kobolds. Gnomes also gain a +4 dodge bonus to their Defense against giant-type creatures (such as ogres and trolls); this bonus represents special training that gnomes undergo, during which they learn trick
s that previous generations developed in their battles with giants. Note that any time a gnome loses his positive Dexterity bonus to Defense, such as when he\rquote s caught flat-footed, he loses this dodge bonus, too.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Illusion Mastery: }{\fs20\cf0 Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against Illusion spells cast by gnomes.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Speak with Animals }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, a gnome can use }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 
as a spell-like ability to speak with a burrowing mammal (a mole, gopher, ground hog, and so forth). It has a duration of 1 minute, and the gnome is considered a 1st-level caster when he uses this ability, regardless of his actual level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes gain a +2 species bonus on saving throws against illusions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes gain a +2 species bonus on Listen checks. Gnomes who have one or more ranks in the Craft (pharmaceutical) skill also gain a +2 species bonus on Craft (pharmaceutical) checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Gnomes gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. They may treat gnome hooked hammers as archaic weapons instead of exotic weapons.
\par Gnomes with Charisma scores of 10 or higher gain the bonus feat Magical Heritage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gnome: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Small humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 12; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 11, touch 11, flatfooted 11 (+1 size); BAB +0; Grap \endash 5; Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 
1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun gun) or +1 ranged (blindness, pepper spray); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +0 melee (1d3 electricity plus stun, stun gun) or +1 ranged (blind
ness, pepper spray); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, illusion mastery, }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 
1/day, low-light vision; AL varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Computer Use +1, Craft (pharmaceutical) +3, Hide +4, Knowledge (technology) +1, Listen +3, Read/Write Gnome, Speak Gnome, Speak Language (any one), Spot +1. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Magical Heritage, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 light, mage hand, prestidigitation}{\fs20\cf0 . Caster level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Stun gun, pepper spray, windbreaker, casual clothes, cell phone, PDA.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gnome Smart Hero 3/Shadowjack 3: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; Small humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 3d6+6 plus 3d6+6; hp 38; Mas 12; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 16, touch 16, flat-footed 14 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +3 class); BAB +2; Grap \endash 3; Atk +2 melee (1d3\endash 
1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +2 melee (1d3 electricity plus paralysis, stun gun) or +5 ranged (blindness, pepper spray); Full Atk +2 melee (1d3\endash 
1 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d3 electricity plus stun, stun gun) or +5 ranged (blindness, pepper spray); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses, illusion mastery, }{\i\fs20\cf0 speak with animals }{\fs20\cf0 
1/day, low-light vision, read/write code, online presence; AL varies; SV Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +4; AP 3; Rep +5; Str 8, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 15, Wis 8, Cha 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Computer Use +8, Craft (electronic) +8, Craft (pharmaceutical) +6, Decipher Script +8,
 Disable Device +8, Forgery +6, Gather Information +5, Hide +6, Knowledge (business) +8, Knowledge (current events) +6, Knowledge (popular culture) +6, Knowledge (technology) +8, Listen +1, Profession (any one) +3, Read/Write Gnome, Read/Write Language (a
ny two), Repair +8, Research +11, Search +6, Speak Gnome, Speak Language (any two).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Educated (business, technology), Gearhead, Magical Heritage, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Studious.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talents (Smart Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Linguist, savant (Research).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 mage hand, message, prestidigitation}{\fs20\cf0 . Caster level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Stun gun, pepper spray, windbreaker or overcoat, casual clothes, cell phone, PDA, notebook computer, multipurpose tool.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Gremlin
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Gremlins have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disassemble Device (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 When making a Disable Device check, a gremlin completely disassembles the device if the check result is 5 or more higher than the DC of the skill check. Reassembling the device requ
ires a successful Repair check against a DC equal to the gremlin\rquote s Disable Device check result.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mystic Aid (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 When a gremlin aids another gremlin with a Disable Device check, the aid another attempt succeeds automatically, granting a +2 bonus to the che
ck. The gremlin providing the aid must be adjacent to the gremlin performing the check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 degauss, haywire, machine invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 13), }{\i\fs20\cf0 power device}{\fs20\cf0 . Caster level 1st.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Gremlins can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jury-Rigged Repair: }{\fs20\cf0 Gremlins may only use the Repair skill to jury-rig.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Gremlins gain a +4 species bonus on Demolition and Disable Device skill checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Gremlin: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/6; Diminutive fey; HD 1/8d6\endash 1; hp 1; Mas 9; Init +4; Spd 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 18, touch 18, flatfooted 14 (+4 size, +4 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 17; Atk \endash 1 melee (1, claw or tiny wrench); Full Atk 
\endash 1 melee (1, claw or tiny wrench) or +8 ranged; FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ disassemble device, mystic aid, spell-like abilities, low-light vision, jury-rigged repair; AL none; SV Fort \endash 1, Ref +4, Will +4; AP 
0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 18, Con 9, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Computer Use +6, Craft (electronic) +6, Craft (mechanical) +6, Disable Device +12, Demolitions +10, Escape Artist +8, Hide +18, Listen +8, Move Silently +12, Repair +4, Spot +8, Tumble +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Builder (electronic, mechanical), Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Grendelspawn
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn hiss and growl but seem to have no language of their own.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid Spit (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn can spit acid up to 20 feet away as a ranged touch attack; if the acid hits, it deals 2d6 points of acid damage per round until it\rquote 
s washed off with at least a gallon of water (a full-round action) or until 1 minute passes. A grendelspawn hunter can spit acid twice per day; a grendelspawn queen can spit acid at will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A grendelspawn that takes damage in combat flies into a berserk rage the following round, clawing and biting madly until either it or its opponent is dead. An enra
ged grendelspawn gains +4 Strength and +4 Constitution, and it suffers a \endash 2 penalty to Defense. The creature cannot begin or end its rage voluntarily.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the grendelspawn to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen Sight (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn have darkvision with a range of 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Grendelspawn Hunter
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Hunters tend to travel in small packs of three to six. Though only marginally intelligent, they often display the cunning common to many predators.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn Hunter: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; Medium magical beast; HD 9d10+27; hp 76; Mas 17; Init +2; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft
.; Defense 18, touch 12, flat-footed 16 (+2 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +9; Grap +14; Atk +14 melee (1d6+5, bite) or +11 ranged touch (2d6, acid spit); Full Atk +14 melee (1d4+5, 2 claws), +12 melee (1d6+2, bite) or +11 ranged touch (2d6, acid spit); FS 5 ft. b
y 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid spit (2/day), rage, scent, keen sight; AL queen, master; SV Fort +9, Ref +8, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +13, Listen +6, Spot +6, Survival +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Combat Reflexes, Multiattack, Track.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
When raging, a grendelspawn hunter gains 18 hit points. Its other statistics change as follows: Mas 21; Defense 16, touch 10, flat-footed 14; Grap +16; Atk +16 melee (1d6+7, bite); Full Atk +16 melee (1d4+7, 2 claws), +14 melee (
1d6+3, bite); SV Fort +11; Str 24, Con 21.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 10\endash 15 HD (Medium); 16\endash 27 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Grendelspawn Queen
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn queens are generally solitary, although sometimes a small cluster of them will cooperate long enough to protect a joint clutch of eggs. They have a ruthless intellect devoted solely to the protection of their progeny. 
\par The grendelspawn queen gains the following additional special qualities:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 To use this ability, a grendelspawn queen must hit with its tentacle slam. If it gets a hold, it can constrict (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Constrict (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A grendelspawn queen deals automatic tentacle damage with a successful grapple check against creatures smaller than itself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grendelspawn Queen: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 12; Huge magical beast; HD 14d10+70; hp 147; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 22, touch 8, flat-footed 22 (\endash 
2 size, +14 natural); BAB +14; Grap +30; Atk +20 melee (2d6+12, bite) or +12 ranged touch (2d6, acid spit); Full Atk 
+20 melee (2d4+8, 2 claws), +18 melee (2d6+4, bite), +18 melee (1d6+4, 2 tentacle slams) or +12 ranged touch (2d6, acid spit); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ acid spit (at will), rage, improved grab, constrict, scent, keen sight; AL eggs; SV Fort +
14, Ref +9, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 8, Intimidate +15, Listen +14, Spot +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Blind-Fight, Combat Expertise, Frightful Presence, Multiattack, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 When raging, a grendels
pawn queen gains 28 hit points. Her other statistics change as follows: Mas 25; Defense 20, touch 6, flat-footed 20; Grap +32; Atk +22 melee (2d6+15, bite); Full Atk +22 melee (2d4+10, 2 claws), +20 melee (2d6+5, bite), +20 melee (1d6+5, 2 tentacle slams)
; SV Fort +16; Str 30, Con 25.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 15\endash 32 HD (Huge); 33\endash 42 HD (Gargantuan).
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Halfling
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings read, write, and speak their own language. Particularly intelligent halflings know other languages as well, including any of the following Shadow languages: Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Goblin, and Orc.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Combat Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings gain a +1 species bonus on attacks with thrown weapons and slings.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings gain a +1 species bonus on all saving throws. In addition, they gain an additional +2 morale bonus on saving throws against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings gain a +2 species bonus on Climb, Jump, Listen, and Move Silently checks. In addition, halflings gain the bonus skills Read/Write Language (any one) and Speak Language (any one).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Halflings gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Halfling: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Small humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas 10; Init +1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 size, +1 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 5; Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed) or +0 melee (1d4\endash 
1/19\endash 20, knife) or +1 ranged (1d4 electricity plus paralysis, taser) or +3 ranged (1d3, slingshot); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 1 nonlethal, unarmed) or +0 melee (1d4\endash 1/19\endash 
20, knife) or +2 ranged (1d4 electricity plus paralysis, taser) or +3 ranged (1d3, slingshot); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses; AL varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 11.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +1, Climb +1, Diplomacy +2, Hide +5, Jump +1, Knowledge (any one) +1, Listen +2, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Halfling, Read/Write Language (any one), Sleight of Hand +3, Speak Halfling, Speak Language (any one).

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Slingshot, knife, taser, casual clothes, disposable camera.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Halfling Fast Hero 1/Charismatic Hero 1: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Small humanoid (Shadowkind); HD 1d8 plus 1d6; hp 11; Mas 10; Init +3; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 17, touch 17, flat-footed 14 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +3 class); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
4; Atk +1 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d4/19\endash 20, knife) or +4 ranged (2d4, Pathfinder) or +4 ra
nged (1d4 electricity plus paralysis, taser) or +5 ranged (1d3, slingshot); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +1 melee (1d4/ 19\endash 
20, knife) or +4 ranged (2d4, Pathfinder) or +4 ranged (1d4 electricity plus paralysis, taser) or +5 ranged (
1d3, slingshot); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ special combat bonuses; AL varies; SV Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +0; AP 1; Rep +2; Str 10, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 14, Wis 8, Cha 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +5, Bluff +3, Climb +2, Diplomacy +3, Escape Artist +5, Gather 
Information +3, Hide +11, Jump +2, Knowledge (current events) +3, Knowledge (popular culture) +4, Knowledge (streetwise) +4, Listen +3, Move Silently +7, Perform (any one) +2, Read/Write Halfling, Read/Write Language (any three), Sleight of Hand +7, Speak
 Halfling, Speak Language (any three), Tumble +7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Fast Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Evasion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Charismatic Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Fast-talk.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Slingshot, knife, loaded Pathfinder (.22 revolver), speed loader (with 6 extra .22 rounds), taser, casual clothes, disposable camera.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Most homunculi cannot speak, with exceptions noted below. However, the process of creating a homunculus links it telepathically with its creat
or. It knows what its master knows and can convey to her everything it sees and hears, up to a range of 1 mile. A homunculus never willingly travels beyond this range; if taken beyond the 1-mile range, it loses telepathic contact with its creator and seek
s to regain contact at all costs. If a homunculus is slain, its creator immediately takes 2d10 points of damage. If the master is slain, the homunculus is immediately destroyed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Homunculi have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Construct: }{\fs20\cf0 Homunculi are im
mune to mind-influencing effects, as well as poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonl
ethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Repairable: }{\fs20\cf0 Homunculi cannot heal damage on their own but can be repaired using the Repair skill. A successful Repair check (DC 30) heals 1d10 points of damage, and
 each check represents 1 hour of work. A homunculus cannot repair itself unless it has one or more ranks in the Repair skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Homunculi can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and homunculi can function with no light at all.
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Creating a Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Techno Mages have the ability to construct homunculi.  Creating a homunculus requires time, skill, equipment, and various raw materials (including a pint of the creator\rquote s blood)
 that are consumed during the construction process. Acquiring the necessary equipment and supplies to build a homunculus requires a successful Wealth check (DC 25). Once the necessary supplies are obtained, a Techno Mage must spend 1 week building the hom
u
nculus. During this time, the Techno Mage must labor for 8 hours a day. A character not actively working on the ritual must rest and perform no other activities except eating, sleeping or talking. If she misses a day, the process fails, and the ritual mus
t
 begin anew. At the end of the period, the Techno Mage makes an appropriate Craft check (DC 20). The type of Craft check depends on the nature of the homunculus. A successful check means the procedure has worked. A failed check indicates that the process 
has failed, although the Techno Mage may start again from scratch. A Techno Mage cannot take 10 or take 20 on the Craft check.
\par A Techno Mage can create an advanced homunculus with more than 2 Hit Dice (maximum 6 Hit Dice). Each extra Hit Die adds +2 to the purchase DC and +2 to the Craft check DC. 
\par The Techno Mage may create any number of homunculi. However, when a homunculi perishes, its death deals 2d10 points of damage to the Techno Mage. Homunculi are constructs and, as such, may be stored until needed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Biochemical Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A biochemical homunculus is made using the Craft (pharmaceutical) skill and appears as a roughly humanoid wisp of vapor. It can merge with another living being and see through its eyes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incorporeal (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
A biochemical homunculus can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. It is immune to nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or magic weapons, it has
 a 50% chance to ignore damage from a corporeal source (except for force effects, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic missile}{\fs20\cf0 , or attacks made with ghost touch weapons). It can pass through solid objects at will, but not force effects (such as a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 ). Its attacks ignore natural armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as mage armor) work normally against it. 
\par A biochemical homunculi moves silently and cannot be heard with Listen checks. It has no Strength score, so its Dexterity mod
ifier applies both to its melee and ranged attacks. Nonvisual senses, such as blindsight and scent, do not function against biochemical homunculi. A biochemical homunculi cannot be tripped or grappled by a corporeal attacker.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Creature Meld (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 With a successful melee touch attack, a biochemical homunculus can meld with a living organism of Tiny size or larger and see through that creature\rquote s eyes. It gains none of the host creature\rquote 
s other senses and exerts no telepathic control over the host creature. If 
a melded biochemical homunculus is taken more than 1 mile from its creator, it separates from the host creature as a move action and returns to its master with all due haste. If its host creature is slain, the melded biochemical homunculus is immediately 
destroyed as well.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Biochemical Homunculus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Tiny construct (incorporeal); HD 2d10; hp 11; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 50 ft. (good); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 13 (+2 size, +2 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +1; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +5 melee (1d2, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d2, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, repairable, incorporeal, darkvision 60 ft., creature meld; AL master; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 15, Con 
\emdash , Int 10, Wis12, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 6 HD (Tiny).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Digital Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A digital homunculus is made with the Craft (electronic) skill and resembles a mechanical insect. It has the ability to uplink with electronic devices.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Electronic Interface (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A digi
tal homunculus can attach itself to an electronic device, such as a cell phone or computer, and provide a direct link between the device and its master. Provided the homunculus and its master are within 1 mile of each other, the master can use the homuncu
lus\rquote s interface to operate the device by remote. The homunculus also provides a +2 equipment bonus on its master\rquote 
s Computer Use and Disable Device skill checks provided it can attach itself to the computer or device through which (or against which) these skills are applied.
\par The digital homunculus must succeed at a melee touch attack to attach to any device in another creature\rquote s possession. It loses its Dexterity bonus to Defense while connected to a device.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Digital Homunculus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Tiny construct; HD 2d10; hp 11; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 50 ft. (good); Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 14 (+2 size, +2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap \endash 9; Atk +1 melee (1d4\endash 
2, bite); Full Atk +1 melee (1d4\endash 2, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, repairable, darkvision 60 ft., electronic interface; AL master; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 15, Con \emdash 
, Int 10, Wis12, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 6 HD (Tiny).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Flesh Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A flesh homunculus is formed from the living tissue of the Techno Mage. It resembles an emaciated, bipedal bat with needlelike fangs that inject a sleep-inducing venom. It is constructed using the Craft (chemical) skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Venomous bite: Fortitude save (DC 11); initial damage sleep for 1 minute; secondary damage sleep for another 5d6 minutes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 5/+1 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A flesh homunculus ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by a nonmagical weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fast Healing 3 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A flesh homunculus heals 3 points of damage each round so long as its master is alive and the homunculus has at least 1 hit point. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flesh Homunculus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Tiny construct; HD 2d10; hp 11; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 50 ft. (good); Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+2 size, +2 Dex); BAB +1; Grap \endash 9; Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 
2, bite); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 2, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, repairable, darkvision 60 ft., poison, damage reduction 5/+1, fast healing; AL master; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 14, Con 
\emdash , Int 10, Wis12, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 6 HD (Tiny).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mechanical Homunculus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A mechanical homunculus is made of metal and resembles a miniature robot. It is constructed using the Craft (mechanical) skill. This homunculus has limited artificial intelligence, allowing its master to program it with specific skills.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The mechanical homunculus has night vision sensors that improve the range of its darkvision to 120 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acid Spittle (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The bite of a mechanical homunculus injects mild acid that deals an additional 1d6 points of acid damage. The fumes of this acid are not poisonous.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 
A mechanical homunculus has 10 skill points, which its master assigns to specific skills when the homunculus is first created. The skill ranks can be assigned only to the following skills: Computer Use, Decipher Script, Demolitions, D
isable Device, Knowledge (any), Listen, Navigate, Read/Write Language (any), Repair, Search, Speak Language (any), and Spot. No skill can have more than 5 ranks assigned to it, and all of the skills are treated as class skills. A damaged mechanical homunc
ulus with one or more ranks of Repair can attempt to repair itself or aid another\rquote s attempts to repair it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Mechanical Homunculus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Tiny construct; HD 2d10; hp 11; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 13 (+2 size, +2 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +1; Grap \endash 8; Atk +2 melee (1d3\endash 
1 plus 1d6 acid, bite); Full Atk +2 melee (1d3\endash 1 plus 1d6 acid, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, repairable, darkvision 120 ft., acid spittle, skills; AL master; S
V Fort +0, Ref +2, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 14, Con \emdash , Int 10, Wis12, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Disable Device +3, Hide +10, Listen +3, Repair +4, Speak Language (any one), Spot +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 6 HD (Tiny).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Leechwalker
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Leechwalkers have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 All-Around Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A leechwalker can see in all directions at once. Because of this, it gains a +4 species bonus on Search and Spot checks, and it cannot be flanked.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blood Drink (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A leechwalker can drink the blood of a grabbed victim with a successful grapple check. This attack deals 2d4 points of Constitution damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If a leechwalker hits an opponent that is its own size or smaller with a tentacle rake attack, it deals normal damage and attempts
 to start a grapple as a free action without provoking an attack of opportunity. If it successfully grapples, it can use its blood drink ability in the same round. Thereafter, each successful grapple check automatically deals tentacle rake damage and bloo
d drink damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vermin Traits: }{\fs20\cf0 A leechwalker is immune to all mindaffecting effects. It also has darkvision (60-foot range).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wounding (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Damage resulting from the leechwalker\rquote s tentacle rake attack is a wound that bleeds for an additional 3 points of dam
age every round thereafter. Multiple wounds result in cumulative blood loss (two successful rake attacks mean blood lose of 6 points per round, and so on). The bleeding can be stopped by a successful Treat Injury check (DC 10) or the application of a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 spell or some other healing spell. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Leechwalker: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 10; Medium vermin; HD 13d8 +39; hp 97; Mas 16; Init +0; Spd 30 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 12, touch 10, flat-footed 12 (+2 natural); BAB +9; Grap +13; Atk +13 melee (1d8+4 plus wounding, tentacle rake); F
ull Atk +13/+13 melee (1d8+4 plus wounding x\u-4064\'3f
2, tentacle rakes); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ All-around vision, blood drink, improved grab, vermin traits, wounding; AL none; SV Fort +11, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 11, Con 16, Int \emdash , Wis 13, Cha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +3, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Search +4, Spot +8, Swim +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 14\endash 26 HD (Medium); 27\endash 39 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Living Dumpster
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Living dumpsters do not speak. They weigh between 500 and 1,000 pounds, depending on how much trash they have inside them.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Living dumpsters have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Construct: }{\fs20\cf0 Living dumpsters are immune to mind-influencing effects, as well as poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy
 effects, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wheels: }{\fs20\cf0 Because the living dumpster relies on small caster wheels for locomotion, its speed is reduced by half on very soft or soft surfaces such as mud or thick lawns. It can\rquote 
t negotiate stairs, although it can hop up or down a curb without difficulty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wall Smash (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If a living dumpster bull rushes a foe against a wall, it can make a free slam attack against that foe. If the attack succeeds, it deals 2d8+18 points of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Swallow Whole (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If a living dumpster successfully grapples a creature smaller than 
itself, it can attempt to swallow the creature. If the living dumpster succeeds at a second grapple check, the grappled opponent is swallowed whole. Swallowed characters take 1d8+9 points of damage per round from the vigorous shaking of the living dumpste
r. The swallowed creature can attack the living dumpster from inside using either its natural weapons or a Small, Tiny, or Diminutive weapon. A living dumpster can hold two Medium creatures (or four Small creatures) at a time.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Living dumpsters can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and living dumpsters can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Living Dumpster: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Large construct; HD 8d10+20; hp 64; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 7, flat-footed 19 (\endash 2 Dex, \endash 
1 size, +12 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, wheels, wall smash 2d8+18, swallow whole, darkvision 60 f
t.; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 7, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 9\endash 18 HD (Large); 19\endash 24 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Living Dumpster: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 9; Huge construct; HD 23d10+40; hp 166; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 20, touch 5, flat-footed 20 (\endash 3 Dex, \endash 
2 size, +15 natural); BAB +18; Grap +36; Atk +26 melee (2d6+15, slam); Full Atk +26 melee (2d6+15, slam); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, wheels, wall smash
 4d6+30, swallow whole (holds 4 Medium creatures or 8 Small creatures), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 30, Dex 5, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Lizard
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Lizards have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Some species of giant lizard have a poisonous bite. Bite: Fortitude save (DC 14); initial and secondary 1d3 Strength damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Lizards can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Lizards use their Dexterity modifier for Climb checks. They gain a +8 species bonus on Balance 
checks and a +4 species bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks. In wooded or overgrown areas, the species bonus on Hide checks improves to +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Lizards gain the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Lizard: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/6; Tiny animal; HD 1/2 d8; hp 2; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+2 size, +2 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 12; Atk +4 melee (1d3\endash 4, bite); Full Atk +4 melee (1d3\endash 
4, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 3, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +10, Climb +6, Hide +14 (+18 in wooded or overgrown areas), Listen +5, Move Silently +6, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Giant Lizard: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 2; Medium animal; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Mas 17; Init +2; Spd 30 ft., climb 30 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 12, flat-footed 13 (+2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach
 5 ft.; SQ Poison, low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +10, Climb +13, Hide +6 (+10 in wooded or overgrown areas), Listen +5, Move Silently +6, Spot +5, Swim +11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 4\endash 5 HD (Medium); 6\endash 18 HD (Large); 19\endash 32 HD (Huge); 33\endash 45 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Octopus
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Octopi have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aquatic: }{\fs20\cf0 Octopi can move in water without making Swim checks and cannot drown in water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
To use this ability, a normal octopus must hit with its tentacle attack (which itself deals no damage). If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage each round the hold is maintained. If a giant octopus successfully hits with a tentacl
e slam against a target smaller than itself, it can deal automatic bite damage each round or it can constrict (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Constrict (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A giant octopus that succeeds in grappling an opponent smaller than itself deals 1d4+5 points of damage per round as it constricts.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Some small octopi have venomous bites. Bite: Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 octopus\rquote s Hit Dice + octopus\rquote s Constitution modifier); initial and secondary 1d2 Strength damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ink Cloud (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Both the octopus and giant octopus can emit a cloud of jet-black ink as a free action. The normal octopus\rquote s ink cloud is a 10-foot cube, while the giant octopus\rquote 
s ink cloud fills a 20-foot cube. The cloud provides total concealment, which the octopus normally uses to escape a losing fight. All vision within the cloud is obscured.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jet (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An octopus or giant octopus can jet backward once a round as a full-round action, at a speed of 200 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Lizards can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Both octopi and giant octopi can change colors and squeeze into small spaces. They gain a +4 species bonus on Hide checks and a +10 species bonus on Escape Artist checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Normal octopi gain the bonus feats Weapon Finesse (bite) and Weapon Finesse (tentacles).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Octopus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/6 (1/2 if venomous); Small animal; HD 1/2 d8; hp 2; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd 5 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
3; Atk +4 melee (special, tentacles); Full Atk +4 melee (special, tentacles), \endash 1 melee (1d4, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Aquatic, improved grab, poison (DC 
10), ink cloud, jet, low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 3, Wis 12, Cha 3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Escape Artist +13, Hide +7, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite, tentacles).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 1\endash 2 HD (Small); 3\endash 7 HD (Medium).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Giant Octopus: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; Large animal; HD 8d8+8; hp 44; Mas 13; Init +2; Spd 10 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 11, flatfooted 16 (\endash 1 size, +2 Dex, +7 natural); BAB +6; Grap +15; Atk +10 melee (1d4+7, tent
acle slam); Full Atk +10 melee (1d4+5, 8 tentacle slams), +5 melee (1d8+2, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ Aquatic subtype, improved grab, constrict, ink cloud, jet, low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20
, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Escape Artist +12, Hide +2, Listen +5, Move Silently +4, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 9\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 24 HD (Huge); 25\endash 42 (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Orc
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Orcs read, write, and speak their own language (Orc). A few particularly intelligent orcs speak other local or Shadow languages, including Goblin and Giant.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Orcs have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Orcs can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and orcs can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Light Sensitivity (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Orcs suffer a \endash 1 penalty to attack rolls in bright sunlight or within the radius of effects or spells that duplicate bright sunlight (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 daylight}{\fs20\cf0 ).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Orcs receive the bonus feats Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), and Armor Proficiency (medium). They may treat orc double axes as archaic weapons instead of exotic weapons.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Orc: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 1/2; Medium humanoid; HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas 11; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 14 (+4 scale mail); BAB +0; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +2 melee (1d12+3/x3, greataxe); Full Atk +2 melee (1d3+2 nonletha
l, unarmed strike) or +2 melee (1d12+3/x3, greataxe) or +0 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., light sensitivity; AL varies; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will \endash 1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 9, Wis 8, Cha 8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Listen +2, Read/Write Orc, Speak Orc, Spot +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Scale mail, greataxe, casual clothes or fatigues, sunglasses (negates light sensitivity).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Orc Strong Hero 2/Tough Hero 1: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; Medium humanoid; HD 2d8+4 plus 1d10+2; hp 24; Mas 15; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 13, flat-footed 18 (+3 class, +5 breastplate); BAB +2; Grap +6; Atk +7 melee (1d6+5 non
lethal, unarmed strike) or +7 melee (1d12+7/x3, greataxe); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+5 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +7 melee (1d12+7/x3, greataxe) or +2 ranged (1d8+4, compound bow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., light sensitivity; A
L varies; SV Fort +5, Ref +0, Will +0; AP 1; Rep +2; Str 18, Dex 10, Con 15, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +6, Jump +6, Knowledge (streetwise) +3, Read/Write Orc, Repair +2, Speak Language (any one), Speak Orc, Spot +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Brawl, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Focus (greataxe).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Strong Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Melee smash.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talent (Tough Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Remain conscious.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Breastplate, greataxe, compound bow with 20 arrows, casual clothes or fatigues, sunglasses (negates light sensitivity).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Otyugh
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Otyughs weigh 500\endash 750 pounds. They speak one local language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Otyughs have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Otyughs can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and otyughs can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 To use this ability, the otyugh must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with a tentacle attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict (see below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Constrict (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An otyugh deals automatic tentacle damage to a creature smaller than itself with a successful grapple check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disease (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An otyugh\rquote s bite carries a nasty disease called filth fever. Filth fever\emdash bite: Fortitude save (DC 16) negates; incubation period 1d3 days; initial and secondary damage 1d3 Dex and 1d3 Con.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 An otyugh gains a +8 species bonus on Hide checks when in its lair, due to its natural coloration.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Otyugh: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Large aberration; HD 6d8+18; hp 45; Mas 17; Init +1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 18, touch 10, flat-footed 17 (\endash 1 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +4; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+6, tentacle rake); Full Atk +7 melee 
(1d6+4, 2 tentacle rakes), +2 melee (2d6+2 plus disease, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft. (15 ft. with tentacles); SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, constrict 1d6+4, disease; AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 12, C
on 17, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +5 (+13 in lair), Listen +9, Speak Language (any one), Spot +9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 7\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 15 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Otyugh: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; Huge aberration; HD 12d8+60; hp 114; Mas 24; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 19, touch 8, flatfooted 19 (\endash 
2 size, +11 natural); BAB +8; Grap +24; Atk +14 melee (2d4+12, tentacle rake); Full Atk +14 melee (2d4+8, 2 tentacle rakes), +9 melee (2d8+4 plus disease, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 15 ft. (20 ft. with tentacle
s); SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, constrict 2d4+8, disease; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +4, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +0 (+8 in lair), Listen +15, Speak Language (any one), Spot +15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Improved Damage Threshold.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Platonic
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A platonic is a powerful entity of Shadow devoted to a particular cause or abstract concept. A platonic is compelled to protect and advance its cause at every opportunity, which often brings it into contact with mo
rtals whose goals are more complex and nebulous.
\par Platonics can change their appearance at a whim, but most choose to appear as handsome humans of either gender. If they aren\rquote t bothering to disguise their otherworldly origin, their skin has a faint luminescent quality.
\par Each platonic has an abstract principle to which it is fanatically devoted. Platonics are beholden to what they call the Pact of the Boundless. A series of rules that all platonics follow, the Pact mandates that when possible, platonics won\rquote t 
reveal their true nature to mundanes. Furthermore, platonics are compelled to act as subtly as possible. 
\par Platonics naturally speak all languages. They choose their height and weight, but generally pick something within human norms.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Platonics have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aura of Menace (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A terrible aura surrounds platonics moved to anger or violence. Any hostile creature within a 20- foot radius of an enraged platonic must succeed at a Will save (DC 17 + platonic\rquote 
s Charisma modifier) to resists its effect. Those who fail suffer a \endash 2 morale penalty on attacks and saves and a \endash 
2 penalty to Defense for one day or until they successfully injure the platonic who generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or broken the effect cannot be affected again by that platonic\rquote s aura for one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 At will\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 bestow curse, change self, detect magic, dispel magic, fear, status, telekinesis, teleport. }{\fs20\cf0 In addition, platonics 
generally have four additional spell-like abilities (each usable at will) chosen from the spell lists}{\i\fs20\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 
and three spelllike abilities (each usable once per day) chosen from among the incantations. These seven spell-like abilities relate to the platonic\rquote s cau
se in some way, and they tend to be split evenly between offense, defense, and utility abilities. A platonic\rquote s spell-like abilities are as the spells cast by a 10th-level Mage or Acolyte.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tongues (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 All platonics can speak with any creature that has a language, as though using a }{\i\fs20\cf0 tongues }{\fs20\cf0 spell cast by a 10th-level caster. This ability is always active.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Extradimensional Storage (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Platonics can store up to 50 pounds of gear extradimensionally, sending it away or calling it to hand as a free action once 
per round. They usually store weapons, cash, and other generally useful goods in this manner.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 All platonics have low-light vision and 60-foot darkvision.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Platonics are immune to cold, electricity, petrification, and sonic attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistances (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Platonics have acid resistance 20 and fire resistance 20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 30/+3 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A platonic ignores the first 30 points of damage dealt by weapons of less than +3 enchantment.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A platonic has spell resistance equal to 10 + Hit Dice.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fast Healing 10 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A platonic heals 10 points of damage each round so long as it has at least 1 hit point.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Platonics gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Sraosha (Platonic of Contract Enforcement)
\par Sraosha: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 17; Medium outsider; HD 15d8+75; hp 142; Mas 20; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 32, touch 17, flat-footed 27 (+5 Dex, +15 natural, +2 deflection); BAB +15; Grap +21; Atk +24 melee (1d8+12/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 longsword}{
\fs20\cf0 ) or +21 melee (1d4+6, unarmed strike) or +23 ranged (2d8+3, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 M\endash 16A2}{\fs20\cf0 ) or +19 ranged (4d8+3, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 M\endash 16A2 }{\fs20\cf0 burst); Full Atk +24/+19/+14 melee (1d8+12/19\endash 20, }{\i\fs20\cf0 
+3 longsword}{\fs20\cf0 ) or +21/+16/+11 melee (1d4+6, unarmed strike) or +23/+18/+13 ranged (2d8+3, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 M\endash 16A2}{\fs20\cf0 ) or +19/+14/+9 ranged (4d8+3, }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 M16A2 }{\fs20\cf0 
burst); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ aura of menace, spell-like abilities, tongues, extradimensional storage, keen vision, immunities, acid and fire resistance 20, damage reduction 30/+3, SR 25, fast healing 10
; AL contract enforcement; SV Fort +14, Ref +14, Will +15; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 21, Con 20, Int 20, Wis 23, Cha 24.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Computer Use +7, Diplomacy +25, Intimidate +25, Investigate +23, Knowledge (business) +23, Knowledge (civics) +23, Listen +24, Research +25, Search +25, Sense Motive +24, Spot +24.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Burst Fire, Combat Martial Arts, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-Like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 At will\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 bestow curse 
(DC 21), break enchantment, change self, detect magical aura, discern lies, dispel magic, fear (DC 21), hold person (DC 20), status, telekinesis (DC 22), teleport, wall of force; }{\fs20\cf0 1/day\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 
baleful polymorph (DC 24), greater dispel magic, teleport. }{\fs20\cf0 Caster level 10th; save DC 17 + spell level.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 longsword, +3 M16A2 }{\fs20\cf0 (both items stored extradimensionally), }{\i\fs20\cf0 +2 ring of protection}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Porpoise
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises measure 4\endash 6 feet long and weigh 110 to 170 pounds. The following stats may also be used to describe whales of similar size.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aquatic: }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises can move in water without making Swim checks and cannot drown in water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blindsight (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises can \'93see\'94 by emitting high-frequency sounds, inaudible to most other creatures. This form of echolocation allows them to locate objects and creatures within 120 feet. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 silence }{
\fs20\cf0 spell negates this and forces the porpoise to rely on its vision, which is approximately as good as a human\rquote s.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises gain a +4 species bonus on Listen and Spot checks. These bonuses are lost if blindsight is negated.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Porpoises gain the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Porpoise: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Medium animal; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 13; Init +3;
 Spd swim 80 ft.; Defense 15, touch 13, flatfooted 12 (+3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +1; Atk +4 melee (1d4, slam); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ aquatic, blindsight; AL none or school; SV Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +1; A
P 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Listen +10 (+6 if blindsight is negated), Spot +10 (+6 if blindsight is negated).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 4 HD (Medium); 5\endash 6 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Rat, Dire
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Dire rats have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disease (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Dire rats carry a Shadow disease called filth fever. Filth fever\emdash bite: Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; incubation period 1d3 days; initial and secondary damage 1d3 Dex and 1d3 Con.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Dire rats can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and dire rats can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the dire rat to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Dire rats gain a +8 species bonus on Swim checks. Dire rats apply their Strength or Dexterity bonus (whichever is higher) to Climb and Swim checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Dire rats gain the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (bite). Advanced dire rats lose this feat if their Strength bonus exceeds their Dexterity bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dire Rat: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/3; Small animal; HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 12; Init +3; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
4; Atk +4 melee (1d4, bite); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ disease, darkvision 60 ft., scent; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +14, Hide +11, Move Silently +6, Swim +11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 2\endash 3 HD (Small); 4\endash 6 HD (Medium); 7\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 24 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Dire Rat: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Large animal; HD 9d8+36; hp 76; Mas 18; Init +1; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 13, touch 10, flat-footed 12 (\endash 
1 size, +1 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, bite); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+9, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ disease, darkvision 60 ft., scent; AL none; SV Fort +3,
 Ref +5, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 13, Con 18, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +18, Hide +5, Move Silently +4, Swim +15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Retriever
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A typical retriever weighs about 6,500 pounds. It does not speak.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Retrievers have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Construct: }{\fs20\cf0 Retrievers are immune to mind-influencing effects as well as poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromancy effects, and any effect that requires a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on o
bjects or is harmless. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eye Rays (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A retriever\rquote s eyes can produce four different magical rays with a range of 100 fee
t. Each round, it can fire one ray, as a free action. An individual ray is usable only once every 4 rounds. It can fire an eye ray in the same round as it makes physical attacks. The save DC for all rays is 10 + 1/2 the retriever\rquote 
s Hit Dice + the retriever\rquote s Dexterity modifier. The four eye effects are:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fire: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 12d6 points of fire damage to the target (Reflex half).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cold: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 12d6 points of cold damage to the target (Reflex half).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Electricity: }{\fs20\cf0 Deals 12d6 points of electricity damage to the target (Reflex half).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Petrification: }{\fs20\cf0 The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or turn to stone permanently.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fast Healing 5 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Retrievers regain 5 hit points per round. Fast healing stops working when the retriever is reduced to 0 hit points or fewer.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Find Target }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 When ordered to find an item or being, a retriever does so unerringly, as though guided by }{\i\fs20\cf0 discern location. }{\fs20\cf0 
The being giving the order must have seen (or have an item belonging to) the creature to be found, or have touched the object to be located. This ability is the equivalent of an 8th-level spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 To use this ability, the retriever must hit with its bite attack. If it wins the grapple check, it establishes a hold and grips the opponent fast in its mouth. This is how it usually \'93retrieves\'94 things.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Retriever: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 11; Huge construct; HD 10d10+40; hp 95; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd 50 ft.; Defense 21, touch 11, flat-footed 18 (\endash 
2 size, +3 Dex, +10 natural); BAB +7; Grap +25; Atk +15 melee (2d4+10, claw) or +8 ranged touch (special, eye ray); Full Atk +15 melee (2d4+10, 4 claws), +10 melee (1d6+5, bite) or +8 ranged touch (special, eye ray); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ 
construct, eye rays (DC 18), fast healing 5, }{\i\fs20\cf0 find target}{\fs20\cf0 , improved grab; AL evil, master; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 17, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 11, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 11\endash 15 HD (Huge); 16\endash 30 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Retriever: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 13; Gargantuan construct; HD 18d10+80; hp 179; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd 50 ft.; Defense 23, touch 9, flat-footed 20 (\endash 
4 size, +3 Dex, +14 natural); BAB +13; Grap +39; Atk +23 melee (2d6+14, claw) or +12 ranged touch (
special, eye ray); Full Atk +23 melee (2d6+14, 4 claws), +19 melee (1d8+7, bite) or +12 ranged touch (special, eye ray); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ construct, eye rays (DC 22), fast healing 5, }{\i\fs20\cf0 find target}{\fs20\cf0 
, improved grab; AL evil, master; SV Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 39, Dex 17, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 11, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Roach Thrall
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Roach thralls learn the dominant human language in their area quickly\emdash generally within a few weeks of emerging from
 their eggs. They lose the ability to speak if they emerge from their human host, but they still understand any human language they know. In their true forms, roach thralls can wordlessly speak to each other by linking their antennae. In roach form, a roa
ch thrall is about 5 feet long and weighs about 150 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Roach thralls have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Human Host: }{\fs20\cf0 While inside its human host, the roach thrall can\rquote t use its natural weapons or darkvision. The host body has 10 hit points; if it\rquote 
s reduced to 0 or fewer hit points, the roach thrall automatically spends a full-round action growing out of the ruined host.
\par The roach thrall can voluntarily cast aside its host body as a full-round action.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Multiple Limbs: }{\fs20\cf0 Once they\rquote ve emerged from their
 human hosts, roach thralls walk upright for a few days before reverting to the gait of a cockroach. This is a preference, not a mandate; the roach thrall can choose whether to be upright or not once per round as a free action. An upright roach thrall has
 a speed of 30 feet and can use four limbs to attack. Otherwise, it has a speed of 40 feet and can only use two limbs to attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Although roach thralls aren\rquote t vermin, they share some attributes with cockroaches. Roach thralls gain a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Roach thralls outside of their human hosts can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and otyughs can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 The roach thrall living inside a human host gains a +10 species bonus on Disguise checks. It also gains a +5 species bonus on Bluff checks when attempting to pass itself off as its human host.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Roach Thrall: }{\fs20\cf0 
CR 2; Medium aberration; HD 3d8+3; hp 16; Mas 12; Init +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft. (bipedal) or 40 ft. (as insect); Defense 18, touch 12, flat-footed 16 (+2 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw); Full
 Atk +2 melee (1d4, 2 claws or 4 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ human host, multiple limbs, resistance to massive damage, darkvision 60 ft.; AL roach thralls; SV Fort +2, Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, C
ha 7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +5 (+10 when pretending to be its human host), Climb +4, Disguise +5 (+15 inside human host), Jump +4, Listen +6, Read/Write Language (any three), Sense Motive +5, Speak Language (any three), Spot +6, Swim +4.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Deceptive, Improved Initiative, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 4\endash 6 HD (Medium) in cockroach form.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Sidhe
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Use the information on Fey to create new sidhe.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Sidhe have the following traits.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Change Self }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 A sidhe can change its appearance at will, as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 change self }{\fs20\cf0 spell cast by a 10th-level Mage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A sidhe is immune to one or more specific types of energy or weapon damage. Sidhe roll on the immunity column of Table: Sidhe Immunities and Resistances.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A sidhe is resistant to one or more specific types of energy damage. Sidhe roll on the immunity column of Table: Sidhe Immunities and Resistances.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Sidhe have damage reduction, as noted in the chart below. One-of-a-kind sidhe lords may have even higher damage reduction (usually 15/+2).
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Sidhe Hit Dice\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Damage Reduction\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8 or fewer\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5/+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 9\endash 16\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10/+1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 17 or more\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15/+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1342\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3186\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Sidhe can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Allegiances: }{\fs20\cf0 All sidhe have a primary allegiance to chaos.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Sidhe gain either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Automatic Languages: }{\fs20\cf0 Sidhe can speak Sylvan (the language of fey) and a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus. Sidhe with an Intelligence of 8 or higher can also read and write these languages.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7415 \cellx7307\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Table: Sidhe Immunities and Resistances\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth7415 \cellx7307\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Roll d%\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Immunity\cell }\pard\plain 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Roll d%\cell }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Resistance\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 01\endash 06\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 01\endash 21\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 None (do not roll again)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 07\endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cold damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 22\endash 27\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid resistance 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 13\endash 18\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion damage\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 28\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Acid resistance 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 19\endash 24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity damage\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 31\endash 36\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cold resistance 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 25\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 37\endash 39\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cold resistance 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 31\endash 36\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Ballistic damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 40\endash 45\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion resistance 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 37\endash 42\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Bludgeoning damage\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 46\endash 48\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Sonic/concussion resistance 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 43\endash 48\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Piercing damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 49\endash 54\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity resistance 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 49\endash 54\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Slashing damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 55\endash 57\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Electricity resistance 20\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 55\endash 60\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Poison damage}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 58\endash 63\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire resistance 10}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 61\endash 66\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Radiation damage\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 64\endash 66\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Fire resistance 20}{\b\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 
\cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 67\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Choose one, and roll again\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 67\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Choose one, and roll again\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth3\trwWidth7415\trftsWidthB3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1067 \cellx959\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2497 \cellx3456\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1041 \cellx4497\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2810 \cellx7307\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dreamghast
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Fascinate }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 A dreamghast can fascinate onlookers by staring at the targets and speaking softly. The targets m
ust be within 60 feet of the dreamghast and must be able to see and hear the dreamghast. The dreamghast must also see the creatures it intends to fascinate. The distraction of a nearby combat or other dangers prevents the ability from working. Otherwise, 
creatures that fail a Will save (DC 21) remain stationary and quiet, staring at and listening to the dreamghast as long as the dreamghast maintains the fascinate effect for up to 1 minute.
\par Any potential threat (such as a thrall of the dreamghast moving behind the fascinated creature) allows an affected target a new save against the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fascinate }{\fs20\cf0 
effect. Any obvious threat, such as drawing a weapon, automatically breaks the effect. While using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fascinate }{\fs20\cf0 ability, a dreamghast must spend an attack action each round concentrating. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fascinate }{\fs20\cf0 
ability is a spell-like, mind-affecting charm ability.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Despair (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 The mere sight of a dreamghast in its true form forces the viewer to succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or be paralyzed with fear for 1d4 rounds. Whether or 
not the save is successful, that creature cannot be affected again by that dreamghast\rquote s despair ability for one day.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Detect Dreams }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 A dreamghast can observe the dreams of a sleeping creature within 60 feet. This functions like the }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect thoughts }{\fs20\cf0 powe
r manifested by a 10th-level Telepath, except that it only functions on sleeping creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Devour Dreams (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A dreamghast can caress the forehead of a sleeping victim and consume its dreams for itself. The process requires 10 minutes of uninterrupted fe
eding, during which time a cloud or roiling vapor emerges from the victim\rquote s head and is sucked into the dreamghast\rquote 
s gaping maw. Once the dream is devoured, the dreamghast gains a +1 luck bonus on attacks, ability checks, skill checks, and saves and 4 temp
orary hit points per Hit Die of the victim. The luck bonus and temporary hit points last for 24 hours. At the end of the dream-eating process, the dreamghast chooses whether it wants to enslave the victim or cause memory loss (see below); either is a free
 action. A sleeping victim has no chance of waking during the dream-devouring process.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Enslave (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 If the dreamghast considers a dream-eating victim particularly interesting or useful, he may implant a series of enslavement commands in the victim\rquote s mind. 
The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or be affected as though by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 domination }{\fs20\cf0 
power manifested by a 10th-level Telepath. The dreamghast commands the enslaved victim telepathically when the victim sleeps; when the victim is awake, it acts on previous orders but can\rquote 
t be given new ones. An enslaved creature obeys the dreamghast\rquote s commands until freed by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 spell or a }{\i\fs20\cf0 negate psionics }{\fs20\cf0 
power. The enslaved creature can also attempt a new Will save every 24 hours to break free. The control is also broken if the dreamghast dies or travels more than 1 mile from its slave.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Memory Loss (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once the dreamghast eats someone\rquote s dreams, it may consume the subject\rquote s memories as well. The victim must succeed at a Will save (DC 21) or su
ffer complete memory loss. The victim has no memory of his identity, background, family, friends, and so forth. The memory loss has no effect on languages known, class-related talents, or other class features. The subject temporarily loses all Knowledge s
kills but retains all other skills. The memory loss persists until the victim receives a }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 spell or undergoes 1d6 months of therapy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A dreamghast is immune to ballistic damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Dreamghasts ignore the first 10 points of fire damage dealt by any single attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Dreamghast (Sidhe): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 7; Medium fey; HD 10d6+10; hp 45; Mas 16; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 17, touch 12, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +5; Grap +6; Atk +6 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 
20, machete) or +6 ranged; Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 20, machete), +0 melee (1d6/19\endash 20, 3 machetes) or +6 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ fascinate, }{\i\fs20\cf0 change self, }{\fs20\cf0 despair, }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect dreams}{
\fs20\cf0 , dream eating, enslave, memory loss, damage reduction 10/+1, fire resistance 10, immunities, low-light vision; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +14, Intimidate +18, Listen +13, Spot +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Combat Reflexes, Improved Damage Threshold, Multiweapon Fighting*, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par *The Multiweapon Fighting feat functions just like the Two-Weapon Fighting feat, except you need more than two arms to use it. The primary attack takes a \endash 2 penalty, and all the secondary attacks take a \endash 6 penalty.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Four machetes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Faun
\par Enchanting Music (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Music is magical to fauns, and they can create a variety of enchanting effects on listeners with a carefull
y crafted song. When a faun infuses its song with its fey power, all creatures within a 60-foot spread of the satyr (except other sidhe) must succeed at a Will save (DC 13) or be affected by }{\i\fs20\cf0 attraction}{\fs20\cf0 
, as the power manifest by a 10thlevel Telepath. Once per day, the faun can use his music to instead create a }{\i\fs20\cf0 lesser domination }{\fs20\cf0 effect (Will save, DC 15, negates) or }{\i\fs20\cf0 mental blast }{\fs20\cf0 
effect (Will save, DC 15, negates) targeted at one specific listener.
\par It takes the faun a full-round action to use enchanting music. Anyone who successfully saves against the faun\rquote s enchanting music cannot be affected by music from that faun for one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A faun is immune to bludgeoning damage, enabling it to survive a barfight unscathed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cold Resistance 10 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Fauns ignore the first 10 points of cold damage dealt by any single attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Fauns gain a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Perform, and Spot checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Faun (Sidhe): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Medium fey; HD 5d6; hp 17; Mas 11; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d6, gore) or +2 melee (1d6/18\endash 
20, sword cane) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6, gore) or +2 melee (1d6/18\endash 20, sword cane) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SA enchanting music, }{\i\fs20\cf0 change self}{\fs20\cf0 
, cold resistance 10, damage reduction 5/+1, immunities, lowlight vision}{\i\fs20\cf0 ; }{\fs20\cf0 AL chaos; SV Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +10, Disguise +12, Hide +14, Listen +3, Move Silently +12, Perform (sing) +14, Perform (any one) +14, Spot +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Great Fortitude, Personal Weapons Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Musical instrument, loaded Colt Python (.357 revolver), sword cane (usually disguised as an umbrella or within the musical instrument\rquote s case).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Skunk Ape
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Skunk apes speak their own language, which has no written form. They may read, write, and speak a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus (if any).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Skunk apes have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stench (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Skunk apes exude a stench reminiscent of rotting vegetation, ammonia, and decay. When frightened or a
ngry, they can intensify this odor such that all creatures within 30 feet of the skunk ape must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 12) or be nauseated for 2d6 rounds. A nauseated creature may take only a single move action per turn and may not perform action
s requiring concentration or attention. Skunk apes are immune to their own stench but not to the stench of other creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Woodland Stride (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The oily fur of the skunk ape allows it to pass through any sort of undergrowth (thorn bushes, briars, cranberry bogs, and other overgrown areas) at normal speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Skunk apes can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and skunk apes can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Skunk apes gain the bonus feat Alertness. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skunk Ape: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/2; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas 11; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 11, flatfooted 12 (+1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee  (1d4+1, claw); 
Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ stench, woodland stride, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +0, Ref +3, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 8, Wis 8, Cha 8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +5, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Speak Skunk Ape, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Skunk Ape Dedicated Hero 3/Acolyte 2: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Medium monstrous humanoid; HD 3d6+9 plus 2d8+6; hp 37; Mas 16; Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiativ
e); Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 15 (+1 Dex, +2 natural, +3 class); BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +5 ranged (1d4, sling); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +5 ranged (1d4, sling) or +5 ranged touch (special, net); FS 
5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ stench, woodland stride, darkvision 60 ft., divine spells, turn or rebuke undead 2/day; AL good; SV Fort +8, Ref +4, Will +7; AP 2; Rep +3; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +7, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +6, Listen +7, Read/Write Language (any one), Sense Motive +8, Speak Language (any one), Speak Skunk Ape, Spellcraft +4, Spot +7, Survival +7, Treat Injury +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Heroic Surge (2/day), Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Track.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talents (Dedicated Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Empathy, skill emphasis (Survival).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spells }{\fs20\cf0 (4/4): 0\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure minor wounds, detect magical aura, read magic, resistance; }{\fs20\cf0 1st\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 bless, cure light wounds, mending, shield of faith}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Sling with 20 bullets, net, holy symbol (totem necklace), shaman\rquote s bag (treat as medical kit).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Spirit
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All spirits have the following capabilities. Particular types of spirits may have additional abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Undead: }{\fs20\cf0 
Spirits are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromantic effects, and mind-affecting effects. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or effects of massive damage, or any 
effect requiring a Fortitude save unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They may be healed by application of negative energy (such as an }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds }{\fs20\cf0 
spell). They are destroyed if reduced to 0 hit points or less (but may be rejuvenated, as noted below).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incorporeal (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
A spirit can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, and spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. It is immune to nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells
 or magic weapons, it has a 50% chance to ignore damage from a corporeal source (except for force effects, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic missile}{\fs20\cf0 
, or attacks made with ghost touch weapons). It can pass through solid objects at will, but not force effects (such as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force}{\fs20\cf0 
). Its attacks ignore natural armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force effects (such as mage armor) work normally against it. A spirit moves silently and cannot be heard with Listen checks (unless it wished to be heard). It ha
s no Strength score, so its Dexterity modifier applies both to its melee and ranged attacks. Nonvisual senses, such as blindsight and scent, do not function against an ash wraith. A spirit cannot be tripped or grappled by a corporeal attacker, nor can a s
pirit make trip or grapple attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonuses to Defense: }{\fs20\cf0 A spirit gains a deflection bonus to its Defense equal to its Charisma modifier (minimum +1). Although it may appear to wear armor and other forms of protection, a spirit receives no natural armor bonu
s or equipment bonus to Defense.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Corrupting Touch (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A spirit that hits a living target with its incorporeal touch attack deals 1d6 points of damage. The spirit adds its Dexterity modifier to the attack roll.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisibility (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Spirits are naturally invisible but may be detected by spells that detect or reveal invisible creatures and objects. A spirit may reveal itself willingly, but normally does so only during the night.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rejuvenation (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 In most cases, it\rquote s difficult to destroy a spirit through simple combat; the \'93destroyed\'94
 spirit will often restore itself in 2d4 days. As a rule, the only way to get rid of a spirit forever is to determine the reason for its existence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in peace. The exact means varies wit
h each spirit and may require use of the Research skill.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Turn Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A spirit has +4 turn resistance. If a spirit is turned but cannot flee, it is instead destroyed. However, it may still rejuvenate (see above). 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Imprisonment (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Spirits are bo
und to a particular place. This place is usually a dwelling, building, or similarly contained area. Within this area, they may use their abilities as normal. In addition, some spirits may only be present at particular times (an anniversary of a death, or 
o
nly between midnight and dawn). They may be released from this imprisonment by particular actions (giving their physical body a proper funeral, restoring a lost or stolen item, getting vengeance on those responsible for their death, and so forth). A spiri
t may be unaware of the nature of its release, or may be unwilling to divulge those details.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Spirits can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and spirits can function with no light at all. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Spirits receive a +8 species bonus on Hide, Listen, Search, and Spot checks. }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Animating Spirit (Poltergeist)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 An animating spirit can move and throw objects around. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telekinesis (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 An animating spirit can use }{\i\fs20\cf0 telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 as an attack action, at will (as a 10th-level Mage). Creatures subjected to the telekinesis attack are entitled to a Will save (DC 15 + spirit
\rquote s Intelligence modifier) to resist.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Animating Spirit (Poltergeist): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium undead; HD 1d12; hp 6; Mas \emdash ; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 11, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (+1 deflection); BAB +0; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +0 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +0 melee touch (1d6, corrupt
ing touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch, telekinesis (DC 15), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 
\emdash , Dex 11, Con \emdash , Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +4, Diplomacy +4, Hide +12, Intimidate +5, Listen +12, Read/Write Language (any one), Search +12, Sense Motive +4, Speak Language (any one), Spot +12. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 2\endash 3 HD (Medium); 4\endash 7 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Frightful Spirit (Apparition)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A frightful spirit\rquote s twisted features horrify all who behold it. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Horrific Appearance (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Any living creature within 60 feet that views the frightful spirit must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + spirit\rquote s Hit Dice + spirit\rquote 
s Charisma modifier) or immediately suffer 1d4 points of temporary Strength damage, 1d4 points of temporary Dexterity damage, and 1d4 points of temporary Constitution damage. A creature that successfully saves against this effect 
cannot be affected by the same spirit\rquote s horrific appearance for one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Frightful Spirit (Apparition): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; Medium undead; HD 2d12; hp 13; Mas \emdash ; Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +0; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +1 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +1 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch, horrific appearance (DC 12), invisibility, re
juvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 12, Con \emdash , Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +4, Diplomacy +4, Hide +14, Intimidate +5, Listen +14, Search +14, Sense Motive +6, Spot +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 3\endash 5 HD (Medium); 6\endash 9 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Groaning Spirit (Banshee)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A groaning spirit can panic others with its mournful cry.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Frightful Moan (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A groaning spirit can moan as an attack action. All living creatures within a 30-foot spread must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + spirit\rquote s Hit Dice + spirit\rquote 
s Charisma modifier) or become panicked for 2d4 rounds. A panicked creature flees as fast as possible, cowers if unable to get away, and defends normal
ly (but cannot attack). This is a sonic, necromantic, mind-affecting fear effect. A creature that successfully saves against the moan cannot be affected by the same spirit\rquote s moan for one day.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Groaning Spirit: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Medium undead; HD 3d12; hp 19; Mas \emdash ; Init +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +1; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +2 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); Full Atk +2 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 
ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch, frightful moan (DC 14), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 13, Con 
\emdash , Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +6, Diplomacy +6, Hide +14, Intimidate +7, Listen +15, Search +14, Sense Motive +6, Spot +15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 4\endash 7 HD (Medium); 8\endash 12 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Possessing Spirit (Haunt)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A possessing spirit can take command of a living physical body.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possession (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once per round, as an attack action, a possessing spirit can merge with a living creature and seize control of its body. To use this ability, the spirit must first enter the target\rquote s fighting space; doing 
so does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par The target can resist the spirit\rquote s attempt at possession with a successful Will save (DC 10 + spirit\rquote s Hit Dice + spirit\rquote s Charisma modifier). If the save succeeds, the spirit is rebuffed and pushed into an adjac
ent square. A target that successfully saves cannot be possessed by that spirit for one day, and the spirit cannot again enter the target\rquote s fighting space during that time. If the save fails, the spirit vanishes into the target\rquote 
s body and takes control of it.
\par A possessed creature gains the spirit\rquote 
s Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, allegiances, skills, and feats. The possessed creature retains its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, type, hit points, massive damage thresho
ld, grapple check modifier, fighting space, reach, Reputation bonus, and extraordinary abilities. It loses access to any spell-like abilities, supernatural abilities, action points, and mental abilities (including prepared spells and knowledge gained from
 life experiences). 
\par While possessing a host creature, the spirit loses its supernatural or extraordinary abilities except for its turn resistance. The possessed creature\rquote s
 original spirit instantly reinstates itself if the possessing spirit is turned, destroyed, or otherwise dislodged from its host. A possessing spirit can leave its host as a free action, if it so chooses. Any attack that deals massive damage on the host
\rquote s body allows the host another Will save to oust the possessing spirit and regain control of its body (whether or not the massive damage Fortitude save succeeds). 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessing Spirit: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Medium undead; HD 5d12; hp 32; Mas \emdash ; Init +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 deflection); BAB +2; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +4 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch), Full Atk +4 melee touch (1d6, corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead,
 incorporeal, corrupting touch, possession (DC 17), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 15, Con \emdash , Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 14.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +8, Diplomacy +8, Hide +17, Intimidate +9, Listen +17, Search +17, Sense Motive +8, Spot +17.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 6\endash 9 HD (Medium); 10\endash 15 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Weakening Spirit (Fetch)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A weakening spirit draws strength from the bodies of living creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Draining Touch (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A living creature wounded by the weakening spirit\rquote s corrupting touch attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + spirit\rquote s Hit Dice + spirit\rquote 
s Charisma modifier) or suffer 1d4 points of permanent Strength drain. A creature reduced to 0 Strength by a weakening spirit\rquote s draining touch dies and rises as a free-willed weakening spirit 24 hours later.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Weakening Spirit: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 6; Medium undead; HD 4d12; hp 26; Mas \emdash ; Init +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 13, touch 13, flat-footed 11 (+2 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +1; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +3 melee (1d6 plus 1d4 Str drain, corrupting touch); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6 plus 1d4 Str drain, corrupting touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ 
undead, incorporeal, corrupting touch, draining touch (DC 15), invisibility, rejuvenation, +4 turn resistance, imprisonment, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none or varies; SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 14, Con \emdash 
, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +7, Diplomacy +7, Hide +16, Intimidate +7, Listen +16, Search +16, Sense Motive +8, Spot +16.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Improved Initiative .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 5\endash 8 HD (Medium); 9\endash 14 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Squid
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Squid have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Aquatic: }{\fs20\cf0 Squid can move in water without making Swim checks, and they cannot drown in water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Grab (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 To use this ability, the squid must hit with its tentacle arm attack. If it gets a hold, the squid automatically deals bite damage each round the hold is maintained.
 Squid and giant squid are treated as one size category larger for purposes of determining their grapple check bonus. If a giant squid makes a successful strike with its tentacle rake attack against a target smaller than itself, it can constrict (see belo
w).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Constrict (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A giant squid deals automatic tentacle damage with a successful grapple check against creatures smaller than itself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ink Cloud (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Both the squid and giant squid can emit a cloud of jet-black ink as a free action. The squid\rquote s ink cloud fills a 10-foot cube, while the giant squid\rquote 
s ink cloud fills a 20-foot cube. The cloud provides total concealment, which the squid normally uses to escape a losing fight. All vision within the cloud is obscured.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Jet (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A squid or giant squid can jet backward once per round as a full-round action. This increases the squid\rquote s speed to 240 feet and the giant squid\rquote s speed to 320 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Squid can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and squid can function with no light at all. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Normal squid (but not giant squid) gain the bonus feats Weapon Finesse (bite) and Weapon Finesse (tentacles).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Squid: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/6; Small animal; HD 1/2 d8; hp 2; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd swim 60 ft.; Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 13 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
2; Atk +2 melee (special, tentacles); Full Atk +2 melee (special, tentacles), \endash 3 melee (1d4\endash 2, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ aquatic, improved grab, ink c
loud, jet, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +7, Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite, tentacles).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 1 HD (Small); 2\endash 4 HD (Medium); 5\endash 11 HD (Large).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Giant Squid: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 10; Huge animal; HD 12d8+60; hp 114; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd swim 80 ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flatfooted 17 (\endash 2 size, +9 natural); BAB +9; Grap +29; Atk +15 melee (1d6+12, tentacle rake); Full Atk +15 melee (1d6+8, 10 }{
\fs16\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 tentacle rakes), +10 
melee (2d6+4, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft. (30 ft. with tentacles); SQ aquatic, improved grab, constrict 1d6+8, ink cloud, jet, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +11, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 11, Con 21, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 8, Listen +8, Spot +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 13\endash 18 HD (Huge); 19\endash 36 (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Swarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A swarm is a collection of Fine or Diminutive creatures (usually creatures of the vermin or animal types, but not always) that acts as a single creature. Sw
arms include flocks of birds, swarms of bees, writhing nests of poisonous snakes, and any other conglomeration of creatures that tends to move as a solid mass.
\par A swarm has the characteristics of its original type, except as noted here.
\par A swarm has a single
 pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single initiative modifier, a single speed, and a single Defense. The swarm makes saving throws as a single creature. A single swarm occupies a square (if it is made up of nonflying creatures) or a cube (if comprised of
 flying creatures) 5 feet on a side, but its reach is 0 feet. To attack, the swarm moves into an opponent\rquote 
s fighting space, which provokes an attack of opportunity. It can occupy the same fighting space as a creature of any size, since it crawls all over it
s prey. A swarm can move through squares occupied by enemies and vice versa without impediment, although the swarm may provoke an attack of opportunity if it does so. A swarm can move through cracks or holes large enough for its component creatures. Large
r swarms are represented by multiple swarms, or multiple 5-foot squares.
\par Swarms are presented in a variety of sizes, with a typical example of their type.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Swarms have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Swarm}{\i\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 Swarms are not subject to critical hits or fla
nking. A swarm takes half damage from ballistic, slashing, and piercing weapons. It is immune to any spell or effect that targets a specific number of creatures (including single-target spells such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 disintegrate}{\fs20\cf0 
) unless the swarm is susceptible to mind-affecting effects. (If it has a mind, it has a single hive mind that can be targeted by a mind-affecting spell, though swarms of vermin are mindless and thus immune to such effects.) A swarm takes a \endash 
10 penalty on saving throws against spells or effects that affect an area, such as many evocation spells or grenade-like weapons. If the area effect attack does not allow a saving throw, the swarm takes double damage instead.
\par A swarm that fails a Fortitude save against massive damage disperses and does not reform until its hit points return to full.
\par Swarms don\rquote t make standard melee attacks. Instead, they deal automatic damage to any creature whose space they occupy at the end of their move, with no attack roll needed. Some swarms also have acid, poison, blood dra
in, or other special attacks in addition to normal damage. A swarm\rquote s attacks are nonmagical unless the swarm\rquote s description states otherwise. Damage reduction sufficient to reduce a swarm attack\rquote 
s damage to 0, incorporeality, or other special abilities may make a creature immune (or at least resistant) to damage from the swarm. Swarms cannot attempt trip or grapple checks, nor can they be tripped or grappled themselves.
\par Swarms do not threaten creatures in their square and do not make attacks of opportunity with their swarm attack. However, they distract foes whose squares they occupy, as described below.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Distraction (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Any intelligent creature vulnerable to a swarm\rquote s damage that begins its turn with a swarm in its fighting space is distracted. The target must attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10 + swarm\rquote 
s Hit Dice) or become nauseated for 1 round by the intense pain of countless bites, stings, and pinches. A creature that takes no damage from the swarm\rquote s attack is not subject to distraction. Nauseated creatures 
are unable to attack or do anything else requiring attention or concentration; the only action a nauseated creature can take is a single move action per turn. Even if the target creature succeeds at a Fortitude save, it is still vulnerable to the swarm
\rquote s d
istraction. It is difficult to undertake complex actions while covered by a swarm. Casting or concentrating on a spell requires a Concentration check (DC 20 + spell level). Using skills requiring patience and concentration (such as moving silently or open
ing a lock) requires a Concentration check (DC 20). If the check fails, the target creature is unable to complete the action. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sentience (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Most swarms have the Intelligence of a single member of the swarm. Sentient swarms have a hive mind. A swarm with 
a hive mind has a higher Intelligence score but is susceptible to mind-affecting spells as if it was a single intelligent creature. Sentient swarms have skills as a magical beast (2 x\u-4064\'3f
Int score, plus 1 additional skill point per HD beyond 1 HD). 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Monstrous Spider Swarm
\par Vermin: }{\fs20\cf0 A monstrous spider swarm is immune to mindaffecting attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Bite\emdash Fortitude save (DC 14); initial and secondary damage 1d4 Str.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A monstrous spider swarm gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A monstrous spider swarm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the spiders can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Monstrous Spider Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium vermin (swarm of Tiny vermin); HD 4d8; hp 18; Mas 10; Init +3; Spd 20 ft., climb 10 ft.; Defense 13, touch 13, flat-footed 10 (+3 Dex); BAB +3; Grap \emdash 
; Atk swarm (1d6 plus poison, swarm); Full Atk swarm (1d6 plus pois
on, swarm); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, vermin, distraction, poison, resistance to massive damage, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 16, Con 10, Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Climb +3, Move Silently +8, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Piranha Swarm
\par Aquatic: }{\fs20\cf0 A swarm of piranha can move in water without making Swim checks and cannot drown in water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A swarm of piranha can see twice as far as a hu
man in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. It retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Piranha Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; Medium animal (swarm of Diminutive animals); HD 6d8+6; hp 33; Mas 12; Init +3; Spd swim 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 13, flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +4; Grap \emdash 
; Atk swarm (2d6, swarm), Full Atk swarm (2d6, swarm); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, aquatic, distraction, low-light vision; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +8, Will +2;
\par AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Hide +8, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Sentient Killer Bee Swarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The killer bees in this swarm possess a hive mind. If dispersed, the bee swarm loses its intelligence (as individual
\par bees are nonintelligent).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Poison (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Bite\emdash Fortitude save (DC 14) negates; initial and secondary damage 1d3 Con.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A sentient killer bee swarm gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A sentient killer bee swarm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the killer bees can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Sentient Killer Bee Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Medium vermin (swarm of Fine vermin); HD 5d8; hp 22; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 10 (+5 Dex); BAB +3; Grap \emdash 
; Atk swarm (3d6 plus poison, swarm); Full Atk swarm (3d6 plus poison, swarm); FS
 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, sentience, distraction, poison, resistance to massive damage, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 20, Con 10, Int 10 (\emdash  when dispersed), Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Hide +7, Intimidate +4, Listen +7, Move Silently +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Shadowmoth Swarm
\par Vermin: }{\fs20\cf0 A shadowmoth swarm is immune to mind-affecting attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A shadowmoth swarm gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A shadowmoth swarm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the shadowmoths can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Shadowmoth Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Medium vermin (swarm of Fine vermin); HD 2d8; hp 9; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (perfect); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 10 (+5 Dex); BAB +1; Grap \emdash 
; Atk swarm (1d6, swarm); Full Atk swarm (1d6, swarm); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, vermin, distraction, resistance to massive
 damage, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +8, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 20, Con 10, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Listen +5, Spot +5.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Skeletal Rat Swarm
\par Undead: }{\fs20\cf0 Skeletal rat swarms are immune to poison, s
leep, paralysis, stunning, disease, necromantic effects, and mindaffecting effects. They are not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, ability drain, energy drain, or effects of massive damage, or any effect requiring a Fortitude sav
e unless the effect also works on objects or is harmless. They may be healed by application of negative energy (such as an }{\i\fs20\cf0 inflict light wounds }{\fs20\cf0 spell). The swarm is destroyed if reduced to 0 hit points or less.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities: }{\fs20\cf0 A skeletal rat swarm is immune to cold and takes only one-quarter damage from ballistic, piercing, or slashing weapons.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A skeletal rat swarm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the skeletal rats can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Skeletal Rat Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium undead (swarm of Fine undead); HD 3d12; hp 19; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 13, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (+1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap \emdash ; Atk swarm (2d4, swarm); Full Atk swar
m (2d4, swarm); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, undead, immunities, distraction, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 3, Dex 12, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par West Nile Mosquito Swarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This cloud of mosquitos drains blood from its victims and also carries a deadly virus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vermin: }{\fs20\cf0 A West Nile mosquito swarm is immune to mindaffecting attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disease (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 West Nile virus\emdash bite. Fortitude save (DC 12) negates; incubation period 1d4 days; initial damage 1 Dex and 1 Con; secondary damage 1d2 Dex (temporary) and 1d2 Con (temporary or permanent).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A West Nile mosquito swarm gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A West Nile mosquito swarm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the mosquitos can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par West Nile Mosquito Swarm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Medium vermin (swarm of Fine vermin); HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas 10; Init +4; Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect); Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 10 (+4 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \emdash 
; Atk swarm (1d4 plus disease, swarm); Full Atk swarm (1d4 plus disease, swarm); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.
; Reach 0 ft.; SQ swarm, vermin, distraction, disease, resistance to massive damage, darkvision 60 ft.; SV Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 18, Con 10, Int \emdash , Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills}{\fs20\cf0 : Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Toxyderm
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Regardless of the type of waste that spawned them, toxyderms share the following traits.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Elemental: }{\fs20\cf0 As elementals, toxyderms are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning. They are not subject to critical hits, flanking, or the effects of massive damage. They cannot be raised from the dead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Breath Weapon (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A toxyderm has a cone-shaped breath weapon that it can use as an attack action once every 1d4 rounds. The exact length and type of the breath weapon varies depending on the toxyderm.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Engulf (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
A toxyderm can engulf creatures at least one size smaller than itself as an attack action. It cannot make a slam attack during a round in which it engulfs. The toxyderm merely has to move over the opponents, affecting as many as 
it can cover. Opponents can make attacks of opportunity against the engulfing toxyderm, but if they do so they are not entitled to a saving throw. Those who do not attempt attacks of opportunity must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm\rquote 
s Hit Dice + toxyderm\rquote s Dexterity modifier) or be engulfed; on a success, they are pushed back or aside (opponent\rquote 
s choice) as the toxyderm moves forward. Engulfed creatures are automatically considered grappled and take damage from the toxyderm\rquote s slam attack every subsequent round (no attack roll required).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A toxyderm can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the toxyderm can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Chemical Toxyderm
\par Acid (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
The chemical toxyderm is made of an acid that dissolves organic material. With each successful slam, the toxyderm deals 2d6 points of acid damage in addition to normal slam damage. A creature continues to take acid damage each round until the acid
 is rinsed off with water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Breath Weapon (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The chemical toxyderm breathes a 50-foot cone of acid that deals 15d6 points of damage, or half damage if a Reflex save succeeds (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm\rquote s Hit Dice + toxyderm\rquote 
s Constitution modifier). Unlike the garbage toxyderm, the chemical toxyderm takes no damage from its own breath weapon.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Chemical Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 15; Huge elemental; HD 24d8+120; hp 228; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 20, touch 8, flat-footed 20 (\endash 2 size, +12 natural); BAB +18; Grap +37; 
Atk +27 melee (2d6+16 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +16 ranged; Full Atk +27/+22/+17/+12 melee (2d6+16 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +16/+11/+6/+1 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ elemental, engulf (DC 22), acid, breath weapon (DC 27), darkvision 60 ft.;
 AL none; SV Fort +21, Ref +10, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 32, Dex 11, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 8, Listen +27, Spot +27, Swim +15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Cleave, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 25\endash 60 HD (Huge); 61\endash 72 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Chemical Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 26; Gargantuan elemental; HD 64d8+454 (includes Toughness feats); hp 742; Mas \emdash ; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 20 ft.; Defense 22, touch 6, flat-footed 22 (\endash 4 size, +16 natu
ral); BAB +48; Grap +75; Atk +60 melee (2d8+22 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +44 ranged; Full Atk +60/+55/+50/+45 melee (2d8+22 plus 2d6 acid, slam) or +44/+39/+34/+29 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, engulf (DC 42), acid, breath weapon 
(DC 49), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +42, Ref +23, Will +23; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 40, Dex 11, Con 24, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 12, Listen +56, Spot +56, Swim +41.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder, Toughness (x2), Weapon Focus (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Garbage Toxyderm
\par Disease (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Hantavirus\emdash slam. Fortitude save (DC 14) negates; incubation period 1 day; initial damage 1d2 Str; secondary damage 1d2 Str (temporary or permanent) and 1d2 Con (temporary or permanent).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Breath Weapon (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The garbage toxyderm can expel some of its mass in a 50-foot cone. This deals 10d6 points of bludgeoning damage, or half damage if a Reflex save succeeds (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm\rquote s Hit Dice + toxyderm
\rquote s Constitution modifier). Each time the toxyderm uses its breath weapon, it takes 20 points of damage. Furthermore, any creature that takes damage from the cone must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 14) or contract a disease (see above).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Garbage Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 11; Huge elemental; HD 18d8+90; hp 171; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 20 ft., burrow 10 ft.; Defense 16, touch 6, flat-footed 16 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +10 natural); BAB +13; Grap +30; Atk +20 melee (2d6+13 plus disease, slam) or +9 ranged; Full Atk +20/+15/+10 melee (2d6+13 plus disease, slam) or +9/+4/\endash 1 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ elemental, engul
f (DC 17), disease, breath weapon (DC 24), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +16, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 7, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 10, Listen +21, Spot +21, Swim +13.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Cleave, Great Cleave, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 19\endash 40 HD (Huge); 41\endash 54 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Garbage Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 18; Gargantuan elemental; HD 42d8+294; hp 483; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 20 ft., burrow 10 ft.; Defense 18, touch 4, flat-footed 18 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +14 natural); BAB +32; Grap +57; Atk +41 melee (2d8+19 plus disease, slam) or +26 ranged; Full Atk +41/+36/+31/+25 melee (2d8+19 plus disease, slam) or +26/+21/+16/+11 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ element
al, engulf (DC 29), disease, breath weapon (60-foot cone; DC 38), darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +37, Ref +14, Will +16; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 7, Con 24, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 14, Listen +39, Spot +39, Swim +33.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Nuclear Toxyderm
\par Radiation (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The area within a quarter-mile of a nuclear toxyderm is considered highly ir
radiated (see Radiation Sickness, below), so characters receive a low exposure to radiation if they remain in the area for less than a minute and a moderate exposure if they stay longer. If the nuclear toxyderm hits a creature with a slam attack, that cre
ature receives a severe exposure to radiation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Breath Weapon (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The nuclear toxyderm\rquote s breath weapon is a 100-foot cone of white-hot nuclear slag and fullspectrum radiation. It deals 20d6 points of damage to all in its path, or half damage if a Reflex sa
ve succeeds (DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm\rquote s Hit Dice + toxyderm\rquote s Constitution modifier). Any creature that takes damage from the cone also suffers a high exposure to radiation (see the Radiation Sickness).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chain Reaction (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 If the nuclear toxyderm is reduced t
o 0 or fewer hit points, it explodes in a blinding flash of light that deals 400 points of damage to everything (creatures and objects alike) within 400 feet and 100 points of damage to everything within a mile; a successful Reflex save halves the damage 
(DC 10 + 1/2 toxyderm\rquote s Hit Dice + toxyderm\rquote s Dexterity modifier). This explosion generally results in a milehigh mushroom cloud and a highly radioactive crater a quarter-mile across.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Nuclear Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 20; Gargantuan elemental; HD 30d8+180; hp 305; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 21, touch 6, flat-footed 21 (\endash 
4 size, +15 natural); BAB +22; Grap +47; Atk +32 melee (2d8+19 plus radiation, slam) or +18 ranged; Full Atk +32/+27/+22/+17 melee (2d8+19 plus radiation, slam) or +18/+13/+8/+3 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20
 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, radiation, engulf (DC 25), breath weapon (DC 32), chain reaction, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +26, Ref +12, Will +12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 11, Con 24, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 12, Listen +33, Spot +33, Swim +31.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Cleave, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 31\endash 64 HD (Gargantuan); 65\endash 90 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Nuclear Toxyderm: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 35; Colossal elemental; HD 90d8+840 (includes Toughness feats); hp 1,245; Init +4 (Improved Initiative); Spd 30 ft.; Defense 22, touch 2, flatfooted 22 (\endash 
8 size, +20 natural); BAB +65; Grap +47; Atk +75 melee (4d6+25 plus radiation, slam) or +57 ranged; Ful
l Atk +75/+70/+65/+60 melee (4d6+25 plus radiation, slam) or +57/+52/+47/+42 ranged; FS 30 ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ elemental, radiation, engulf (DC 55), breath weapon (DC 64), chain reaction, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +26, Ref +12, Will 
+12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 44, Dex 11, Con 28, Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide \endash 16, Listen +75, Spot +75, Swim +75.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Great Cleave, Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Sunder, Toughness (x10), Weapon Focus (slam).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\cf0 Radiation Sickness
\par }{\fs20\cf0 When characters are exposed to radiation, they may be afflicted with radiation sickness. Radiation sickness functions exactly like exposure
 to any other disease, following the normal rules for diseases. The Fortitude save DC and the effects of radiation sickness vary with the dose of radiation to which a creature is exposed.
\par Radiation exposure has five degrees: mild, low, moderate, high, and 
severe. To determine the degree of exposure, start with the type of exposure: either an irradiated area or a specific source of radiation. Then consult Table: Radiation Exposure to determine the degree of exposure based on the total time of exposure withi
n a given 24-hour period (rounding up).
\par The degree of the exposure determines the severity of the radiation sickness, as indicated on Table: Radiation Sickness. At low levels, radiation sickness is a slow disease. Often, a sick character suffers no severe s
hort-term effects. This is reflected in the fact that even with a failed Fortitude save, the character might not suffer any Constitution loss.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
Table: Radiation Exposure\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0  \cell }\pard\plain 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Time of Exposure\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7990\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Situation \cell 1 rnd \cell 1 min \cell 10 min \cell 1 hr \cell 1 day\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Character in irradiated area:\cell \cell \cell 
\cell \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx7990\row }\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Lightly irradiated \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 mild \cell mild \cell mild \cell mild \cell mild\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row 
}\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Moderately irradiated \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 mild \cell mild \cell low \cell low \cell low\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row 
}\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Highly irradiated \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 low \cell low \cell moderate \cell moderate \cell moderate\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row 
}\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Severely irradiated \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 moderate \cell moderate \cell high \cell high \cell severe\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Character exposed to radiation source:\cell \cell \cell \cell \cell \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Mildly radioactive materials \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 mild \cell mild \cell low \cell low \cell low\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Highly radioactive materials \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 moderate \cell moderate \cell high \cell high \cell severe\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\pard \ql \fi240\li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Severely radioactive materials \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 moderate \cell high \cell severe \cell severe \cell severe\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3185\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4146\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5107\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx6068\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7029\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx7990\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Radiation Sickness}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4369\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Degree of Exposure \cell }\pard\plain 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fort Save DC\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Damage\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Mild \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 12\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d4\endash 2 Con*\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Low\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6\endash 2 Con*\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Moderate \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 18\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6\endash 1 Con\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 High \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 21\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1d6 Con\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Severe \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 24\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2d6 Con\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1786\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3169\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 *}{\i\fs20\cf0 Minimum damage 0 Con.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4369\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs22\cf0 

\par Urban Wendigo
\par }{\fs20\cf0 An urban wendigo is generally 8 feet tall and weighs 400 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Wendigos have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An urban wendigo that takes damage in combat flies into a berserk rage the following round, clawing and biting madly until either
 it or its opponent is dead. An enraged urban wendigo gains +4 Strength and +4 Constitution, and takes a \endash 2 penalty Defense. The creature cannot end its rage voluntarily.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rend (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 If an urban wendigo hits with both claw attacks, it latches onto the opponent\rquote s body and tears the flesh. This attack automatially deals an additional 2d6+9 points of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ferocity (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 An urban wendigo is such a tenacious combatant that it continues to fight without penalty even while disabled or dying.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Peripheral Invisibility (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A side effect of the desolation that created the urban wendigo in the first place, the urban wendigo gains the benefit of }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility}{\fs20\cf0 
, as the spell cast by a 10th-level Mage. By staying out of the direct, focused vision of city dwellers, the urban wendigo can roam the city unseen. Unlike the }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, any character looking in the general direction of the urban wendigo and taking an attack action to make a Spot check (DC = the urban wendigo\rquote 
s Hide check) can see the urban wendigo if the check succeeds. Once a character sees an urban wendigo, that character is immune to its peripheral invisibility for 1 hour. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows the urban wendigo to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by scent. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Low-Light Vision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Urban wendigos can see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. They retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under t
hese conditions.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Urban wendigos gain a +10 species bonus on Balance, Climb, Jump, and Survival checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Urban Wendigo: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Large giant; HD 6d8+24; hp 51; Mas 19; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 10, flat-footed 16 (\endash 1 size, +1 Dex, +
7 natural); BAB +4; Grap +14; Atk +9 melee (1d6+6, claw) or +4 ranged; Full Atk +9 melee (1d6+6, 2 claws), +4 melee (1d6+3, bite) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ rage, rend 2d6+9, ferocity, peripheral invisibility, scent, low-light visio
n; AL evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 13, Con 19, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +12, Climb +18, Hide \endash 1, Jump +18, Listen +4, Spot +4, Survival +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Dodge, Mobility, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 When rag
ing, the urban wendigo gains 12 hit points. Its other statistics change as follows: Mas 23; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed 14; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+8, claw); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+8, 2 claws), +6 melee (1d6+4, bite); SQ rend 2d6+12; SV Fort +1
1; Str 27, Con 23; Climb +20, Jump +20.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Urban Wendigo Fast Hero 3: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; Large giant; HD 6d8+24 plus 3d8+12; hp 76; Mas 19; Init +2; Spd 45 ft.; Defense 22, touch 14, flat-footed 20 (\endash 
1 size, +2 Dex, +7 natural, +4 class); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, claw) or +7 ranged (1d10/19\endash 20, crossbow); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 claws), +6 melee (1d6+3, bite) or +7 ranged (1d10/19\endash 
20, crossbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ rage, rend 2d6+9, ferocity, peripheral invisibility, scent, low-light vision; AL evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 1; Rep +1; Str 23, Dex 14, Con 19, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +14, Climb +19, Hide +4, Jump +19, Listen +4, Move Silently +4, Spot +4, Survival +14.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Dodge, Mobility, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Spring Attack, Stealthy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talents (Fast Hero): }{\fs20\cf0 Evasion, increased speed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rage (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 When raging, the urban wendigo gains 18 hit points. Its other statisti
cs change as follows: Mas 23; Defense 20, touch 12, flat-footed 18; Grap +18; Atk +13 melee (1d6+8, claw); Full Atk +13 melee (1d6+8, 2 claws), +8 melee (1d6+4, bite); SQ rend 2d6+12; SV Fort +11; Str 27, Con 23; Climb +21, Jump +21.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Crossbow with 12 bolts, battered shopping cart filled with miscellaneous items.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Vivilor
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Vivilors are outsiders who come in response to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Vivilors generally have humanoid shapes, but spellcasters can summon quadupedal or serpentine vivilors 
if they wish. In addition to their basic statistics, a summoner chooses additional special qualities from Vivilor Menu A or Vivilor Menu B (see below). A spellcaster can substitute two choices on Vivilor Menu A for one choice on Vivilor Menu B, or one cho
ice on Vivilor Menu B for two choices on Vivilor Menu A. 
\par Vivilors do not speak. However, a vivilor can understand the instructions of its summoner and follows them to the letter.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 All vivilors share the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A vivilor can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the vivilor can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feat: }{\fs20\cf0 Vivilors gain the bonus feat Archaic Weapons Proficiency. However, they generally prefer to use their natural weapons in combat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 1st-level Vivilor: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/3; Small outsider; HD 1d8; hp 4; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 13, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +1; Grap \endash 3; Atk +2 melee (1d4, slam); Full Atk +2 me
lee (1d4, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ one choice from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort +2, Ref +3, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Hide +5, Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 2nd-level Vivilor: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1; Medium outsider; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 14 (+4 natural); BAB +2; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +3 melee (1d6+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5
 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ two choices from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +5, Jump +5, Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 3rd-level Vivilor: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium outsider; HD 3d8+4; hp 17; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 10, flat-footed 17 (+7 natural); BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; 
SQ three choices from Vivilor Menu A; AL summoner; SV Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +7, Jump +7, Listen +8, Spot +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 4th-level Vivilor: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 4; Large outsider; HD 5d8+15; hp 37; Init \endash 1; Spd 50 ft.; Defense 18, touch 8, flat-footed 18 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +10 natural); BAB +5; Grap +14; Atk +9 melee (1d8+7, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (1d8+7, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10
 ft.; SQ one choice from Vivilor Menu B, damage reduction 5/+1; AL summoner; SV Fort +7, Ref +3, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 21, Dex 9, Con 17, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +13, Hide \endash 5, Jump +13, Listen +12, Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Iron Will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 5th-level Vivilor: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 5; Large outsider; HD 7d8+21; hp 52; Init \endash 1; Spd 50 ft.; Defense 21, touch 8, flat-footed 21 (\endash 1 size, \endash 1 Dex, +13 natural); BAB +7/+2; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+7, slam); Full Atk +1
1/+6 melee (1d8+7, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ two choices from Vivilor Menu B, damage reduction 5/+1; AL summoner; SV Fort +8, Ref +4, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 21, Dex 9, Con 17, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +16, Hide \endash 5, Jump +16, Listen +15, Spot +15.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Alertness, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Iron Will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Vivilor Menu A
\par Aquatic: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains a swim speed of 60 feet. The vivilor can move in water without making Swim checks and cannot drown in water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bat Wings: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains a fly speed of 60 feet (average maneuverability).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistance 5 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains resistance 5 to one energy type of the summoner\rquote s choosing: acid, fire, cold, electricity, or sonic/concussion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Improved Ability Scores: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains +2 Strength and +2 Constitution.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Quadrupedal: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor has four limbs for locomotion, increasing its ground speed by +20 feet. As a quadruped, the vivilor can also carry heavier loads than bipedal forms.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tentacles: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor can slam opponents using tentacles that increase its reach by +5 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tougher Skin: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor\rquote s natural armor bonus to Defense increases by +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Vivilor Menu B
\par Amorphous: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor is immune to critical hits and massive damage. It cannot be flanked.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistance 15 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains resistance 15 to one energy type of the summoner\rquote s choosing: acid, fire, cold, electricity, or sonic/concussion.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Extra Limbs: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains three additional slam attacks during its full attack action. These additional slams are treated as secondary attacks (\endash 5 penalty to the attack roll).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feathered Wings: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor gains a fly speed of 90 feet (good maneuverability).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grasping Tentacles (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor can slam opponents using tentacles that increase its reach 
by +5 feet. On a successful hit, a tentacle can make a free grapple check without provoking attacks of opportunity. A grappled opponent takes automatic slam damage every round the grapple is maintained.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Metallic Skin: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor\rquote s natural armor bonus to Defense increases by +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Serpentine: }{\fs20\cf0 The vivilor has a serpentine form. It deals double slam damage against grappled foes.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Vrock
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Species Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Vrocks have the following traits:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spores (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
A vrock can release masses of spores from its body once every 3 rounds. The spores automatically deal 1d8 points of damage to all creatures within 5 feet of the vrock. They then penetrate the skin and grow, dealing an additional 1d2 points of damage each 
round for 10 rounds. At the end of this time, the victim is covered with a tangle of viny growths. A delay poison spell stops the spores\rquote 
 growth for the duration. Bless, neutralize poison, or remove disease kills the spores, as does sprinkling the victim with a vial of holy water.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stunning Screech (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Once per hour, a vrock can emit a piercing screech. Every creature within a 30-foot radius must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 vrock\rquote s Hit Dice + vrock\rquote 
s Constitution modifier) or be stunned for 1 round. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dance of Ruin (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 
To use this ability, a group of five or more vrocks join hands in a circle, dancing wildly and chanting. If they dance for 3 rounds, a wave of crackling energy flashes outward in a 100-foot radius. All creature within the radius 
take 2d20 points of electricity damage (to which vrocks are immune); a successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves the damage. Forcing the vrocks to break the circle stops the dance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell-like Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 At will\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 darkness, detect magical aura, displacement, telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 17). These abilities are as the spells cast by a 10th-level Mage. The DCs are Intelligence-based.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Psionic Abilities: }{\fs20\cf0 At will\emdash }{\i\fs20\cf0 charm person }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 12), }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 14). These abilities are as the psionic powers manifested by a 10th-level Telepath
. The DCs are Charismabased.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Summon Vrock }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 
Once per day, a vrock can attempt to summon another vrock with a 35% chance of success. Summoned vrock return whence they came after 1 hour. A vrock that has just been summoned cannot use its own summon ability for 1 hour.
\par }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Teleport }{\b\fs20\cf0 (Sp): }{\fs20\cf0 A vrock can teleport itself (plus 50 pounds of objects) to a specific destination up to 1,000 miles away. This ability is similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation  except the vrock cannot teleport other creatures, need not make skill checks to succeed, and does not require any components to activate the ability. The vrock may teleport as a full-round action, at will.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Immunities: }{\fs20\cf0 Vrocks are immune to electricity and poison.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 20/+2 (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A vrock ignores the first 20 points of damage dealt by any weapon with less than a +2 magic bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Vrocks have acid, cold, and fire resistance 10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A vrock has spell resistance equal to 12 + the vrock\rquote s Hit Dice (SR 20 for a normal vrock).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Telepathy (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A vrock can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A vrock can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and the vrock can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Vrocks gain a +8 species bonus on Listen and Spot checks.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Vrock: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 9; Large outsider; HD 8d8+24; hp 60; Mas 17; Init +2; Spd 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average); Defense 25, touch 11, flat-footed 23 (\endash 1 size, 
+2 Dex, +14 natural); BAB +8; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+4, claw); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+4, 2 claws), +9 melee (1d6+2, bite), +9 melee (1d4+2, 2 talons); }{\fs16\cf0  }{\fs20\cf0 
FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ spores, stunning screech (DC 17), dance of ruin, spell-like abilities, psionic abilities, }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vrock, teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 
immune to electricity and poison, damage reduction 20/+2, acid resistance 10, cold resistance 10, fire r
esistance 10, SR 20, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +8, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 19, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Concentration +14, Hide +9, Knowledge (any one) +12, Listen +13, Move Silently +13, Search +13, Sense Motive +13, Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any two), Spellcraft +12, Spot +12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Multiattack, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 9\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 24 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Advanced Vrock (Vrock Lord): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 15; Huge outsider; HD 24d8+120; hp 228; Mas 21; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average); Defense 26, touch 9, flat-footed 25 (\endash 2 size, +1 Dex, +17 natural); BAB +24; Grap +40; Atk +30 melee (2d6+8/19
\endash 20, claw); Full Atk +30 melee (2d6+8/19\endash 20, 2 claws), +25 melee (1d8+4/19\endash 
20, bite), +25 melee (1d6+4, 2 talons); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ spores, stunning screech (DC 27), dance of ruin, spell-like abilities, psionic abilities, }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vrock, teleport, }{\fs20\cf0 
immune to electricity and poison, damage reduct
ion 20/+2, acid resistance 10, cold resistance 10, fire resistance 10, SR 36, telepathy, darkvision 60 ft.; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +15; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 27, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 18, Wis 14, Cha 16.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Bluff +27, Concentration +29, 
Hide +17, Intimidate +27, Knowledge (any one) +28, Listen +26, Move Silently +25, Search +28, Sense Motive +26, Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any four), Spellcraft +28, Spot +26, Tumble +25. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Improved Critical (bite, claw), Multiattack, Power Attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Wererat (Template)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Wererats retain whatever languages they spoke before they contracted lycanthropy. They are generally 5 to 6 feet tall and weigh 125 to 150 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Template Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Wererat is a template (usually acquired by contracting lycanthropy, but very occasionally inherited when two wererats mate) that can be added to any humanoid creature (referred to hereafter as the character). A wererat uses the character
\rquote s statistics and special qualities in addition to those described below.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Challenge Rating: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hit Dice: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character plus the dire rat\rquote s base Hit Dice (1d8).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speed: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid or rat form, speed becomes 40 ft., climb 20 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Defense: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid and animal form, the creature gains a +1 natural armor bonus to Defense. This bonus does not stack with other natural armor bonuses.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Base Attack: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Grapple Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 Apply modifiers for Strength and size depending on the lycanthrope\rquote s form.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Attacks: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character while in humanoid form. In hybrid and rat form, a wererat attacks with its bite, dealing 1d4 points of damage plus its Strength modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Qualities: }{\fs20\cf0 A wererat retains all the special qualities of the character and gains the additional special qualities
\par listed below.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Alternate Form (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A wererat can assume rat or hybrid form, but its gear is not absorbed into the new form. T
he bipedal hybrid form is about 5 feet tall, with a long tail and thin fur. The limbs are human, but the head looks like a rat\rquote 
s. Changing to or from rat or hybrid form is a move action. Upon assuming either form, the wererat regains hit points as if havin
g rested for a day. A slain wereat reverts to its humanoid form, although it remains dead. Afflicted wererats find this ability difficult to control. The rare natural wererat has full control over this power.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Curse of Lycanthropy (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 Any humanoid bitten by a wererat\rquote s bite attack (in rat or hybrid form) must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or contract lycanthropy.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction 15/Silver (Su): }{\fs20\cf0 A wererat in rat or hybrid form ignores the first 15 points of damage dealt by a nonsilver or nonmagical w
eapon but takes full damage from silvered weapons or weapons with +1 or better magic bonus.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Scent (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 This ability allows a wererat in rat or hybrid form to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Rat Empathy (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 A wererat can communciate with rats in any form and gains a +4 species bonus on Diplomacy checks when influencing a rat\rquote s attitude. A friendly rat understands and heeds simple commands, such \'93wait,\'94
 \'93watch,\'94 \'93flee,\'94 and \'93attack.\'94
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 In their rat and hybrid forms, wererats have darkvision with a range of 60 feet. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Allegiances: }{\fs20\cf0 An afflicted wereat gains the law and evil allegiances (displacing other allegiances, if need be). They also generally gain an allegiance to other wererats, although thi
s need not be the primary allegiance. The allegiances to law and evil can be removed only when the wererat has the ability to control the curse of lycanthropy by taking 10 on a Control Shape check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saves: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character, with a +2 species bonus on Fortitude and Reflex saves.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ability Scores: }{\fs20\cf0 Wererats gain the following ability score increases: Dex +6, Con +2. In addition, they gain the following ability score increase in hybrid form: Str +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Bonuses: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character, with a +4 species bonu
s on Listen, Search, and Spot checks when in humanoid form. In rat or hybrid form, these bonuses increase to +8. A wererat in rat form also gains 3 ranks in Climb, 4 ranks in Hide, and 3 ranks in Move Silently. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bonus Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Same as the character. A wererat gains the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (any one eligible weapon) in humanoid form and the bonus feat Weapon Finesse (bite) in rat or hybrid form.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Wererat in Humanoid Form (Human Fast Hero 1): }{\fs20\cf0 CR 3; Medium humanoid; HD 1d8+2 plus 1d8+2; hp 13; Mas 15; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 15, flat-footed 13 (+5 Dex, +3 class); BAB +0; Grap +2; Atk +5 melee (1d4+2/19\endash 
20, knife) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4+2/19\endash 20, knife) or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 
ft.; SQ alternate form, rat empathy; AL law, evil, wererats; SV Fort +4, Ref +8, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 21, Con 15, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Balance +9, Climb +11, Escape Artist +9, Hide +10, Knowledge (streetwise) +3, Listen +4, Move Silently +8, Search +3, Spot +4, Tumble +9.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Dodge, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Finesse (knife).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Possessions: }{\fs20\cf0 Loaded Colt Python (.357 revolver), knife, casual clothes.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Advancement: }{\fs20\cf0 By character class.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Wererat in Hybrid Form (Human Fast Hero 1): }{\fs20\cf0 As humanoid form except: Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 19, touch 15, flat-footed 14 (+5 Dex, +1 natural, +3 class); Grap +3; Atk +5 melee (1d4+3/19\endash 
20, knife) or +5 melee (1d4+3 plus lycanthropy, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+3/19\endash 20, knife) or +3 melee (1d4+3 plus lycanthropy, bite); SQ curse of lycanthropy, damage reduction 15/silver, scent, darkvision 60 ft.; Str 16.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adjusted Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Listen +8, Search +7, Spot +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adjusted Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite) instead of Weapon Finesse (knife).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Wererat in Rat Form (Human Fast Hero 1): }{\fs20\cf0 As humanoid form except: Small humanoid; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 20, touch 19, flat-footed 15 (+1 size, +5 Dex, +1 natural, +3 class); Grap \endash 2; Atk
 +6 melee (1d4+2 plus lycanthropy, bite); Full Atk +6 melee (1d4+2 plus lycanthropy, bite); SQ curse of lycanthropy, damage reduction 15/silver, scent, darkvision 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adjusted Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 Climb +14, Hide +18, Listen +8, Move Silently +11, Search +7, Spot +8.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Adjusted Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon Finesse (bite) instead of Weapon Finesse (knife).
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par Zombie, Liquefied (Template)
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Liquefied zombies cannot speak. They are generally between 5 feet and 6 feet tall, and they weigh about 150 pounds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Template Traits
\par }{\fs20\cf0 \'93Liquefied zombie\'94 
is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal creature other than a construct, elemental, ooze, plant, or undead (referred to hereafter as the base creature). The creature must be in an advanced state of decay, but not yet reduced to a skelet
al corpse. The liquefied zombie uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Challenge Rating: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie\rquote s Challenge Rating equals the base creature\rquote s CR + the following modifier based on size: Tiny or smaller +0, Small +1, Medium +2, Large +4, Huge +5, Gargantuan +7, Colossal +10.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 The creature\rquote s type changes to undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hit Dice: }{\fs20\cf0 Drop any Hit Dice gained from experience, triple the number of Hit Dice left, and raise them to d12.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speed: }{\fs20\cf0 If the base creature could fly, its maneuverability rating as a liquefied zombie drops to clumsy.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Defense: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie\rquote s natural armor bonus to Defense increases to the following, based on its size (but use the base creature\rquote s natural armor bonus if it\rquote s higher): Smal
l or smaller +0, Medium +1, Large +2, Huge +3, Gargantuan +6, Colossal +10.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Attacks: }{\fs20\cf0 The liquefied zombie retains all the natural attacks, manufactured weapons, and weapon proficiencies of the base creature. A liquefied zombie also gains a slam attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage: }{\fs20\cf0 Natural and manufactured weapons deal damage normally. A slam attack deals damage depending on the liquefied zombie\rquote s size (but use the base creature\rquote s slam damage if it\rquote 
s greater): Fine 1, Diminutive 1d2, Tiny 1d3, Small 1d4, Medium 1d6, Large 1d8, Huge 2d6, Gargantuan 2d8, Colossal 4d6.
\par For purposes of Strength bonuses to damage, a slam attack attack is considered a two-handed attack.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Special Qualities: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie loses all of the base creature\rquote s supernatural and spell-like qualities except f
or immunity or resistance to specific energy types. A liquefied zombie may retain any or all of the base creature\rquote s extraordinary abilities at the GM\rquote 
s discretion. In addition to gaining the undead type, a liquefied zombie has the following special quality.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Liquefied Spew (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 
Whenever a liquefied zombie is damaged in combat by anything other than a bludgeoning weapon, some of the liquefied tissue spews forth, covering everything within 5 feet of the liquefied zombie. The scalding liquid deals 1d6 points o
f damage and exposes anyone it touches to the disease of necrotizing faciitis.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Darkvision (Ex): }{\fs20\cf0 Liquefied zombies have darkvision with a range of 60 feet. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Allegiances: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie loses any previous allegiances and adopts a new allegiance to its creator. This allegiance cannot be broken. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saves: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie\rquote s saving throws are based on Hit Dice.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Action Points: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie does not acquire or amass action points. It loses any action points gained by the base creature.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reputation Bonus: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie has a +0 Reputation bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ability Scores: }{\fs20\cf0 A liquefied zombie\rquote s ability scores change as follows: Str +4, Dex \endash 2. Additionally, it has no Constitution or Intelligence score, its Wisdom changes to 10, and its Charisma decreases to 1. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 The liquefied zombie loses all skills.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 The liquefied zombie loses all the base creature\rquote s feats except the following: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Exotic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency, and Simple Weapons Proficiency. The li
quefied zombie gains the Toughness feat.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Human Liquefied Zombie: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 2; Medium undead; HD 3d12+3 (includes Toughness feat); hp 22; Init \endash 1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 10, touch 9, flat-footed 10 (\endash 1 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d6+3, slam); F
ull Atk +2 melee (1d6+3, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ undead, liquefied spew, darkvision 60 ft.; AL creator; SV Fort +1, Ref +0, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 8, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Toughness.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Otyugh Liquefied Zombie: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 8; Large undead; HD 18d12+3 (includes Toughness feat); hp 120; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flat-footed 17 (\endash 
1 size, +8 natural); BAB +9; Grap +19; Atk +14 melee (1d6+9, tentacle rake); Full Atk +14 melee (1d6+6, 2 tentacle rakes
), +9 melee (2d6+3 plus disease, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft. (15 ft. with tentacles); SQ undead, liquefied spew, improved grab, constrict 1d6+6, disease, darkvision 60 ft.; AL creator; SV Fort +6, Ref +6, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 1
0, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skills: }{\fs20\cf0 None.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Feats: }{\fs20\cf0 Toughness.
\par }}