{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title INCANTATIONS}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy6\hr11\min18}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr15\min5}{\version35}{\edmins59}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords13696}{\nofchars78072}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws95877}{\vern8223}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace163\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {INCANTATIONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
\par Incantations function like spells, except a character need not be a spellcaster to cast them. Anyone can cast an incantation simply by performing the correct ritual gestures and phrases. Incantations don\rquote t use spell slots, so they don\rquote 
t have to be prepared ahead of time, and there\rquote 
s no limit on the number of times one can cast an incantation per day. Since they do not use up spell slots, incantations cannot be improved using metamagic feats. Finally, incantations generally have more powerful, far-rea
ching effects than even 5th-level spells.
\par There is, of course, a catch. Incantations take much longer to cast than normal spells. Success with an incantation is never assured, and the consequences for failure can be dramatic. The most powerful incantations
 can require rituals involving multiple participants, strange or expensive material components, or other aspects that make them difficult to cast.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Discovering Incantations
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The instructions for performing incantations are generally found in various obscure tomes. Such books are filled with \'93magic spells,\'94
 and most of them are utterly bogus. But hidden among the dross is the real stuff, and discerning whether an incantation found in a book will actually work is a matter for experts in arcane lore.
\par Finding a set of instructions for a particular incantation requires a successful Research check with a DC equal to the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC for the incantation \endash 10. Just learning of the existence of a particular incantation is an easie
r Research check, with a DC equal to the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC \endash 15.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Casting an Incantation
\par }{\fs20\cf0 At its core, casting an incantation means having the required incantation components, then succeeding at a number of Knowledge (arcane lore) checks during the incantation\rquote 
s casting time. Each incantation lists how many Knowledge (arcane lore) checks are required to cast the incantation successfully.
\par Unless otherwise specified, the caster makes Knowledge (arcane lore) checks every 10 minutes. Failing a Knowledge (arcane lore) check doesn\rquote 
t mean that the entire incantation is a failure, just that the previous 10 minutes have been wasted. However, if you fail two Knowledge (arcane lore) checks in a row, the incantation immediately fails. The consequences for failure
 are detailed in the description of the specific incantation. Even if the incantation fails, material components and experience points are still lost and the backlash still takes effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incantation Components
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Most incantations require components not unlik
e spells, including verbal, somatic, focus, and material components. In addition, some require secondary casters (abbreviated SC), cause some sort of backlash (abbreviated B), or cost the caster some experience points (abbreviated XP).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters
\par }{\fs20\cf0 So
me incantations require multiple participants to cast successfully. These secondary casters (abbreviated SC) are indispensable to the success of the spell. No matter how many people are gathered in the dark room, chanting with candles, only one character
\emdash generally the one with the highest Knowledge (arcane lore) check\emdash is the primary caster who\rquote ll make the relevant checks. Secondary casters can\rquote 
t help the primary caster with the Aid Another rules, but their presence is required for certain aspects of the rit
ual nonetheless. If an incantation requires some other skill check, any of the secondary casters can make that check if they have a higher bonus than the primary caster. Even if you\rquote 
re not a required caster of the spell, you can step in and make the non-Knowledge check if you\rquote re better at the relevant skill than the actual caster. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Backlash
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some spells damage or drain the caster in some way. They have a backlash component, generally damage, negative levels, or some other condition. The caster takes the backlash regardless of the success or failure of the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saves and Spell Resistance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If the incantation allows a save, the formula to calculate it is included in the spell\rquote s description. For checks to overcome spell resistance, divide the incantation\rquote 
s Knowledge (arcane lore) DC by 2 to get the effective caster level for the spell resistance check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incantations as Spell-Like Abilities
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Some creatures have spell-like abilities that duplicate the effects of incantations. There\rquote s no chance of failure and no backlash for such spell-like abilities, which don\rquote 
t require components of any kind and take only an attack action to activate.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Failed Incantations
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Each incantation has its own consequences for failure (two failed skill checks in a row). In general, they can be divided into the following categories.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Attack: }{\fs20\cf0 A creature is called from elsewhere to battle the caster (and often any bystanders and secondary casters). The incantation\rquote s description tells the GM what Challenge Rating the creature should have, how
 it behaves, and how long it persists.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Augment: }{\fs20\cf0 The incantation was supposed to weaken or destroy its target, but it makes it more powerful instead. A damaging spell might heal its target or cause it to grow in size, for example.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Betrayal: }{\fs20\cf0 The incantation 
seemingly succeeds, but the subject of the incantation (or in rare cases the caster) loses all allegiances and gains their opposites. In general, the subject now hates all it loved before the incantation. The subject may keep its new allegiances a secret.
 Whenever a character attempts an incantation with a chance of betrayal failure, the GM should make the relevant die rolls in secret. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage: }{\fs20\cf0 The simplest consequence of failure, damage is dealt to the caster or the target, depending on the incantation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Death: }{\fs20\cf0 Someone\emdash usually the caster or the target\emdash dies. Depending on the incantation, a successful saving throw may avoid the effect of failure.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Delusion: }{\fs20\cf0 The caster believes the incantation had the desired effect, but in fact it had no effect or a very different one.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Falsehood: }{\fs20\cf0 
Common with divinations, the incantation delivers false results to the caster, but the caster believes the results are true. Whenever a character attempts an incantation with a chance of falsehood failure, the GM should make the relevan
t die rolls in secret.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hostile Spell: }{\fs20\cf0 The caster of the incantation is targeted by a harmful spell or incantation. The spell description specifies the specific spell or incantation, save DC, and so on. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mirrorcast: }{\fs20\cf0 The spell has the opposite effect of that intended.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reversal: }{\fs20\cf0 The spell targets the caster, rather than the intended target of the incantation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Baleful Polymorph
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 41, 6 successes, and Knowledge (earth and life sciences), 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 
V, S, M, F, SC; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 70 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Helpless creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Permanent; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }
{\fs20\cf0 Fortitude negates (DC 17 + caster\rquote s Cha modifier) and see text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par As the }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 incantation, except that you change the subject into a Small or smaller animal of no more than 1 HD (such as a dog, lizard, monkey, toad, or viper). If the new form would prove fatal to
 the creature (such as polymorphing a landbound target into a fish), the subject gets a +4 bonus on the save. If the incantation succeeds, the target must also make a Will save. If this second save fails, the creature gains the Intelligence, Wisdom, and C
harisma scores of its new form. It still retains its class and level, hit points, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, allegiances, extraordinary abilities, supernatural abilities, and spell-like abilities, as well as any spellcasting ability possessed.

\par Note that incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed, and a shapeshifter (such as a werewolf) can revert to its natural form as a move action. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Laboratory equipment and alchemical supplies (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Pa
rt of the kind of creature that the target will turn into, such as a hair, scale, or feather. If you have a living, helpless creature that can serve as a model for the target creature, you gain a +2 bonus on the Knowledge (arcane lore) checks required for
 this incantation.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters: }{\fs20\cf0 12 required (not including the primary caster).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Reversal on all secondary casters, using the same saving throw DC.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Bibliolalia
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 bibliolalia }{\fs20\cf0 incantation puts you in an oracular trance as you pore through books in a library. At the incantation\rquote 
s conclusion, you uncover lore about an important person, place, or thing beyond the limits of mundane research.
\par The information gleaned through a }{\i\fs20\cf0 bibliolalia }{\fs20\cf0 incantation isn\rquote 
t necessarily known to anyone, and it may not be in any of the books in the library. Nonetheless, something within the books triggers the burst of magical inspiration that reveals the information.
\par No set of rules can adequately describe how much information the }{\i\fs20\cf0 bibliolalia }{\fs20\cf0 incantation provides. If you have the item or person at hand, you\rquote ll learn more than if you just have a name or a cryptic clue. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A large library with at least a token occult section (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 200 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Falsehood. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 bibliolalia }{\fs20\cf0 incantation reveals information that seems accurate, but is actively misleading.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Body Double
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 39, 6 successes (and see text) and Disguise DC 39, 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 
V, S, M (see text), XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 7 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One duplicate creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 days; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }
{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 incantation creates 
a duplicate of any creature formed from mystic clay, with alchemical blood and an eldritch life of its own. At first glance, the duplicate appears to be exactly the same as the creature you modeled it after, but there are differences: The }{\i\fs20\cf0 
body double }{\fs20\cf0 has o
nly half the level or Hit Dice (which affects its skills, feats, and class features). It has the surface mannerisms and personality of the real creature, but its Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are all 5. Creatures familiar with the original mig
h
t detect the ruse with a successful Spot check. You must make a Disguise check when you cast the incantation to determine how good the likeness is, and this Disguise check sets the DC for Spot checks (to notice imperfections in the duplication) and Sense 
Motive checks (to discern that the }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 is behaving oddly).
\par At all times the }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 remains under your absolute command. No special telepathic link exists, so command must be exercised in some other manner. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 has no ability to beco
me more powerful. It cannot earn experience points. If destroyed, it reverts to clay and melts into a vaguely humanoid lump within 1 minute. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 doesn\rquote 
t naturally heal and responds to neither conventional medicine nor natural healing. A complex process requiring at least one day, materials (purchase DC 5 + 1 per hit point), and a fully equipped magical laboratory can repair damage to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
body double}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The spell is cast over an elaborate clay simulacrum of the creature to be du
plicated, and some piece of the creature (a hair or fingernail, for instance) must be placed within the clay. Additionally, the incantation requires rare earths and unguents (purchase DC 30).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 XP Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Betrayal. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{\fs20\cf0 has allegiances opposite the original creature and a pathological hatred of both the original creature and the caster. Furthermore, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 body double }{
\fs20\cf0 isn\rquote t under the command of the caster, although it may play along for a while while it learns about its new enemies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Caduceus
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 4 successes, and Treat Injury DC 31, 2 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 6 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Living creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates (harmless); }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caduceus }{\fs20\cf0 enables you to channel magic into a creature to wipe away injury and afflictions. It immediately ends any and all of the following adv
erse conditions affecting the target: temporary ability damage (but not permanent ability drain), blindness (including dazzled effects), confusion or insanity, daze, deafness, fatigue, exhaustion, feeblemindedness, nausea, and poison. It also cures up to 
150 points of damage. A single casting of the incantation is enough to simultaneously achieve all these effects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caduceus }{\fs20\cf0 also removes negative levels, but it does not restore permanently drained levels.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 caduceus }{\fs20\cf0 incantation has no effect on undead or constructs.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Medical equipment found in a hospital emergency room (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Death. Target must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or die. If the save succeeds, the target is reduced to \endash 1 hit points, unless he was already below that.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Cast into Shadow
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP, B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{
\fs20\cf0 1 hour (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 55 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more outsiders, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Permanent; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{
\fs20\cf0 Fortitude negates (DC 17 + caster\rquote s Cha modifier) and see text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 cast into Shadow }{\fs20\cf0 incantation enables you to force outsiders (usually, but not always, fien
ds) away from the world you know, trapping them in some distant dimension. Up to 2 HD of creatures per caster level can be sent away in this fashion.
\par To target a creature, you must present at least one object or substance that it hates, fears, or otherwise opposes.
\par If you successfully overcome the target\rquote s spell resistance, and the target fails its save, the target disappears. In general, targets never find their way back from beyond Shadow\emdash or if they do, they don\rquote 
t remember their previous time here.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 If the target or targets are all helpless, the DC for the incantation is reduced by \endash 6. At the GM\rquote 
s option, certain rare items might work twice as well (each providing +2 against spell resistance and +4 on the spell\rquote s DC).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 An object the creature hates, fears, or opposes. Discovering such an item may require a Research check.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 Caster is exhausted. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack from an outsider of the same allegiance. The attacking outsider has a Challenge Rating equal to the average party level +1. It attacks the caster within a few rounds of the incantation\rquote 
s failure. It has been brought to this world by the failed incantation, so it may retreat and try to make a home for itself here. It will always bear a 
grudge against the caster for bringing it here, however, and it is a potential source of later mischief.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Control Weather
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 34, 6 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, SC; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Two miles; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 Two-mile-radius circle, centered on you; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 24 hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You change the weather in the local area. It takes 10 minutes for the effects to manifest
 after the incantation is completed. The current, natural weather conditions are determined by the GM. You can call forth weather appropriate to the climate and season of the area you are in.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384
\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Season\cell Possible Weather\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Spring\cell Tornado, thunderstorm, sleet storm, or hot weather\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5384\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Summer\cell Torrential rain, heat wave, or hailstorm\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Autumn\cell Hot or cold weather, fog, or sleet\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Winter\cell Frigid cold, blizzard, or thaw\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5384\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Late winter\cell Hurricane-force winds or early spring (coastal area)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5384\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 You control the general tendencies of the weather, such as the direction and intensity of the wind. You cannot control specific applications of the weather\emdash 
where lightning strikes, for example, or the exact path of a tornado. When you select a certain weat
her condition to occur, the weather assumes that condition 10 minutes later (changing gradually, not abruptly). The weather continues as you left it for the duration, or until you use an attack action to designate a new kind of weather (which fully manife
sts itself 10 minutes later).
\par Contradictory conditions are not possible simultaneously\emdash  fog and strong wind, for example.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Control weather }{\fs20\cf0 can do away with atmospheric phenomena (naturally occurring or otherwise) as well as create them.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters: }{\fs20\cf0 12 required (not including the primary caster).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Mirrorcast. The opposite weather effect manifests over the course of 10 minutes (rain rather than a heat wave, for example, or a thaw rather than a blizzard). This weather persists for 4d12 hours and cannot be dismissed.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Create Clone
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 32, 7 successes, and Knowledge (earth and life sciences) DC 32, 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 
V, S, M, F, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 8 hours (minimum) and see text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One clone; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{
\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This incantation makes an inert duplicate of a creature. If the original individual has been slain, the original\rquote s soul transfers to the clone, creating a replacement. The original\rquote 
s physical remains, should they still exist, become inert matter and cannot thereafter be restored to life.
\par To create the duplicate, you must have a piece of flesh (not hair, nails, scales, or the like) taken from the original\rquote 
s living body, with a volume of at least 1 cubic inch. The piece of flesh need not be fresh, but it must be kept from rotting (through periodic applications of }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure minor wounds }{\fs20\cf0 
or more advanced medical means). Prior to the incantation being cast, the duplicate body must be grown in a laboratory for 2d4 months.
\par When the clone is completed, if the original is dead, the original\rquote s soul enters the clone. The clone has the personality
, memories, skills, and levels the original had at the time the piece of flesh was taken. However, the replacement must be at least one level lower than the original was at the time of death. If the original was 1st level, the clone\rquote 
s Constitution score dr
ops by 1; if this would give the clone a Constitution score of 0, the incantation fails. If the original creature has lost levels since the flesh sample was taken and died at a lower level than the clone would otherwise be, the clone is at the level at wh
ich the original died.
\par The spell duplicates only the original\rquote s body and mind, not its equipment.
\par A duplicate can be grown while the original still lives, or when the original soul is somehow unavailable, but the resulting creature is merely a soulless bit of inert flesh, which rots if not somehow preserved.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 The piece of flesh and various laboratory supplies (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Genetics laboratory (purchase DC 30).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 500 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 
Betrayal, and possibly reversal as well. If the caster and cloned creature were allies or neutral toward one another, then the cloned creature gains allegiances opposite the ones it once had. If the caster and cloned creature were enemies, then each one g
ains the allegiances the other one had (although neither one knows the other has new allegiances).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Create Golem
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 32, 7 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
7 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One corpse; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This incantation fuses an elemental spirit with a patchwork collection of body parts knitted into a single bipedal form. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Create golem }{\fs20\cf0 
brings a flesh golem to life under your command. The golem can follow simple instructions. It does not speak.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 If you want to create a gear golem rather than a flesh golem, increase the DC of the Knowledge (arcane lore) check by +
8 and increase the experience point cost to 700 XP. If you want to create an advanced golem, increase the DC of the Knowledge (arcane lore) check by +2 for each additional Hit Die.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component}{\fs20\cf0 : The body of the golem must be made to exacting eldritch specifications, with rare ingredients and unusual components (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 400 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack. The golem immediately goes berserk, attacking everyone and everything.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Create Undead
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Evil]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 7 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
7 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One corpse or skeleton; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{
\fs20\cf0 No
\par Much more potent than the }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 spell, this evil incantation allows you to create a powerful undead creature from the creature\rquote 
s dead remains. The incantation raises a corpse as a liquefied zombie, mummy, or vampire. It turns a skeleton into an ash wraith or spirit, and the bones turn to dust upon completion of the incantation.
\par You can create an undead creature up to 20 Hit Dice, and you may control up to 20 Hit Dice of undead at a time. If you create new undead in excess of this amount, older undead slip from your control.
\par This incantation must be cast at night.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 The type of undead you\rquote re creating has a great influence on the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC. Apply the following modifiers: animating spirit \endash 10, frightful spirit \endash 8, groaning spirit \endash 
6, Small or smaller liquefied zombie \endash 4, Medium liquefied zombie \endash 
2, weakening spirit +0, mummy +0, Large liquefied zombie +0, possessing spirit +2, Huge liquefied zombie +2, ash wraith +4, Gargantuan liquefied zombie +8, Colossal liquefied zombie +10. If you\rquote 
re creating a vampire, increase the DC of the Knowledge (arcane lore) check by the vampire\rquote s Hit Dice + 4.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Components: }{\fs20\cf0 A clay pot filled with grave dirt and another filled with brackish water. The spell requires a creature\rquote s corpse or complete
 skeletal remains. You must place a black onyx gem (purchase DC 20) into the mouth of the corpse or skeleton. The magic of the spell turns the gem into a worthless shell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 100 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Betrayal and attack. The undead creature rises and attacks the caster immediately, fighting until slain.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Dedicate Site
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Good]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 35, 5 successes, and Spellcraft DC 35, 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, SC, B; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 6 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 120-ft.- radius emanation centered on touched point; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 One year; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 See text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 See text
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dedicate site }{\fs20\cf0 makes a particular place, building, or structure particularly attuned to a specific allegiance. This has two major effects.
\par First, the site or structure is guarded by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 effect (as the spell) against any allegiance you choose.
\par Second, you may c
hoose to fix a single spell effect to the dedicated site. The spell effect lasts for one year and functions throughout the entire site, regardless of the normal duration and area or effect. You may designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, cr
eatures that share an allegiance with you, or creatures that have another allegiance. At the end of the year, the chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed or replaced simply by casting the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dedicate site }{\fs20\cf0 incantation again.

\par Spell effects that may be tied to a dedicated site include }{\i\fs20\cf0 aid, bane, bless, cause fear, darkness, daylight, detect magical aura, discern lies, dispel magic, freedom of movement, remove fear, resist energy, silence, tongues, }{\fs20\cf0 and 
}{\i\fs20\cf0 zone of truth. }{\fs20\cf0 Saving throws and spell resistance might apply to these spells\rquote  effects. (See the individual spell descriptions for details.)
\par An area can receive only one }{\i\fs20\cf0 dedicate site }{\fs20\cf0 spell (and its associated spell effect) at a time.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Various symbols relevant to your allegiance (purchase DC 25). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters: }{\fs20\cf0 11 required (not including the primary caster).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 All casters are exhausted.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Hostile spell. The primary caster is targeted with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 bestow curse }{\fs20\cf0 spell, but does not get a saving throw or spell resistance. The GM chooses the exact curse.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Greater Dispel Magic
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 4 successes, and Spellcraft DC 31, 2 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 220 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One spellcaster, creature, or object; or 30-ft.-radius burst; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par As the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell, except that the bonus on the dispel check is +15, not the caster level. Additionally, }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 has a chance to dispel any effect that }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{
\fs20\cf0 can remove, even if }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t dispel that effect.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Various rare incenses, herbs, and reagents (purchase DC 20).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 Caster takes 4d6 points of damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Augment. One characteristic of the magical effect targeted (area, range, duration, etc.) doubles. The target spell might deal twice as much damage or a curse might bestow twice the pe
nalty, for example. The GM determines which aspect of the target spell is so augmented.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Mystic Veil
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 34, 7 successes
\par (and see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M (see text), B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 70 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 55 ft.; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Visual and audible figment that covers 12 10-foot cubes (S); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None or Will disbelief (if interacted with) (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This incantation combines several elements to create a powerful protection from scrying and direct observation. When casting the incantation, you dictate what will and will not be observed in the incantation\rquote 
s area. The illusion created must be stated in general terms. Once the conditions are set, they cannot be changed.
\par Attempts to scry the area automatically detect the image stated by you with no save allowed. Sight and sound are appropriate to the illusion created. A band of people standing in a meadow could be concealed 
as an empty meadow with birds chirping, for instance.
\par Direct observation may allow a save (as per a normal illusion), if there is cause to disbelieve what is seen. Certainly onlookers in the area would become suspicious if marching soldiers disappeared at 
one point to reappear at another. Even entering the area does not cancel the illusion or necessarily allow a save, assuming that hidden beings take care to stay out of the way of those affected by the illusion.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 You can create the material component for the }{\i\fs20\cf0 mystic veil }{\fs20\cf0 illusion yourself at no cost. If you do, the incantation also requires a successful Craft (visual arts) check (DC 34).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Realistic paintings, digitally-altered photos, or other representations of the desired illusion (purchase DC 17).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 Caster takes 2d6 points of damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Delusion. The caster and anyone else present at the conclusion of the incantation believe the }{\i\fs20\cf0 mystic veil }{\fs20\cf0 is effective, but no one else is fooled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Polymorph
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 5 successes, and Knowledge (earth and life sciences) DC 31, 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 
V, S, M, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Willing creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{
\fs20\cf0 Fortitude negates; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 incantation gives a creature another form that you designate, which must be within one size category of the subject\rquote 
s normal size. The new form can have no more Hit Dice than you or the subject has (whichever is greater), and in any case the assumed form c
annot have more than 15 Hit Dice. You can transform the subject into an average member of its own species. The new form cannot be an elemental, outsider, or undead unless the subject is that type already. The new form can\rquote 
t be incorporeal or gaseous.
\par The subject\rquote s Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores change to the average scores for the new form.. The subject doesn\rquote t gain or lose any hit points, regardless of its new Constitution score.
\par The subject retains its own Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The subject\rquote 
s class and level, hit points, alignment, base attack bonus, and base save bonuses all remain the same. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) The subject also retains all extraordin
ary, supernatural, and spell-like abilities, as well as any spellcasting ability.
\par You can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote 
s significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under your control, but must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote s species. The subject is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote 
s race. If you use this spell to create a disguise, you get a +10 bonus on your Disguise check.
\par The subject acquires the physical qualities of the new form while retaining its own mind. Physical qualities include natural size, mundane movement capabilities (such as burro
wing, climbing, walking, swimming, and flight with wings, up to a maximum speed of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for nonflying), darkvision and/or low-light vision, natural armor bonus, natural weapons (such as claws, bite, and so on), species skill bonu
ses, species bonus feats, and any gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings, number of extremities, and so forth). A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.

\par Th
e subject also gains any extraordinary special qualities possessed by the new form. You do not gain any extraordinary special qualities not listed above under physical qualities, such as blindsight, fast healing, regeneration, energy resistance, scent, or
 spell resistance. You do not gain any supernatural abilities or spell-like abilities of the new form.
\par If the new form is capable of speech, the subject can communicate normally. Though the subject retains any spellcasting ability he had in his original for
m, the form must be able to speak intelligibly (that is, speak a language) to use verbal components and must have humanlike hands to use somatic or material components.
\par When the }{\i\fs20\cf0 polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 occurs, the subject\rquote s equipment, if any, either remains worn or held
 by the new form (if the new form is capable of wearing or holding the item), or melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. When the subject reverts to his true form, any objects previously melded into the new form reappear in the same locations t
hey previously were and are once again functional. Any new items he wore in polymorphed form and can\rquote 
t wear in his normal form fall off and land at his feet; any that he could wear in either form or carried in a body part common to both forms (mouth, hands,
 or the like) at the time of reversion are still held in the same way. Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 If you have a living, helpless creature that can serve as a model for the target creature, the DC on the Knowledge (arcane lore) checks for this incantation is reduced by \endash 2.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Part of the kind of creature that the target will turn into, such as a hair, scale, or feather.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 Laboratory equipment (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Damage. The target takes 12d6 points of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Possession
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 34, 6 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One helpless creature of fewer Hit Dice than you; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (DC 16 + caster\rquote s Charisma modifier); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par By casting the }{\i\fs20\cf0 possession }{\fs20\cf0 incantation, you place the subject\rquote s soul in a receptacle (a gem or large crystal) while your soul inhabits the subject\rquote 
s body, leaving your body lifeless. Then you can attempt to take control of a nearby body, forcing its soul into the receptacle. The spell ends when you send your soul back to your own body (restoring the subject\rquote 
s soul to its body and causing the receptacle to crumble into dust).
\par You possess the body and force the creature\rquote s soul into the receptacle unless the subject succeeds at a Will save. Failure to take over the host leaves your l
ife force in your body, and the receptacle turns to dust. If successful, your life force occupies the host body, and the host\rquote 
s life force is imprisoned in the receptacle. You keep your Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, level, class, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, alignment, and mental abilities.
\par The body retains its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, hit points, natural abilities, and automatic abilities. A body with extra limbs does not allow you to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal. You can\rquote 
t choose to activate the body\rquote s extraordinary or supernatural abilities. The creature\rquote s spells and spell-like abilities do not stay with the body.
\par As an attack or move action, you can send the trapped soul back to its body and return to yours. This ends the spell.
\par If the host body is slain, you return to your body and the life force of the host departs (that is, it is dead). If the spell ends while you are in a host, you return to your body and the soul in the receptacle return
s to its body. Destroying the receptacle ends the spell and returns both souls to their original bodies. The spell can be dispelled at either the receptacle or the host.
\par When you transfer your soul upon casting, your body is, as near as anyone can tell, dead.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 A large gem or crystal (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 1,000 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Mirrorcast. You wind up trapped inside the receptacle, and the subject\rquote s soul inhabits your body.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Quartz Compulsion
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes, and Intimidate DC 33, 2 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F, B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 80 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Unlimited; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One creature with fewer Hit Dice that you; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 16 hours (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }
{\fs20\cf0 Will partial (DC 18 + caster\rquote s Cha modifier); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 quartz compulsion }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation lets you telepathically contact the subject by gazing through a quartz shard, regardless of where the subject is located. You can telepathically converse for 16 minutes with the subject. Your telepathic contact can also contain a }{
\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 (as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 
psionic power), which the subject does her best to carry out. A successful Will save negates the suggestion effect but not the contact itself. Telepathic communcation is possible even if the creature\rquote s Intelligence score is as low as 1,
 but you must have a language in common with the subject to communicate. If the message is impossible or meaningless according to the circumstances that exist for the subject at the time the }{\i\fs20\cf0 quartz compulsion }{\fs20\cf0 
comes, the message is understood but the }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 is ineffective.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus}{\fs20\cf0 : A carefully cut shard of quartz (purchase DC 22).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 Caster is exhausted.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Reversal. You converse with the subject normally, but the }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 attempt automatically fails, and the subject can instead compel you (as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion }{\fs20\cf0 
psionic power). You don\rquote t get a saving throw, and spell resistance does not apply. Depending on the specific }{\i\fs20\cf0 suggestion}{\fs20\cf0 , you may not realize that your attempt failed or that you\rquote ve been compelled.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Satellite Tracking
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 34, 6 successes, and Computer Use DC 34, 2 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, F; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 80 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Unlimited; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One living creature or object; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }
{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 satellite tracking }{\fs20\cf0 incantation is among the most powerful means of locating creatures or objects. You learn the exact location of a single individual or object. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Satellite tracking }{\fs20\cf0 circumvents norm
al means of protection from scrying or location.
\par The incantation reveals global positioning system (GPS) coordinates for the subject, and a successful computer search (Computer Use check, DC 15) supplies the name of the location (place, name, business name
, building name, or the like), community, county (or similar political division), and country where the subject lies.
\par To find a creature with the spell, you must have seen the creature or have some item that once belonged to it. To find an object, you must have touched the object at least once. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Focus: }{\fs20\cf0 A satellite dish, computer, and telemetry software (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Falsehood. The caster obtains bogus GPS data. At the GM\rquote s discretion, the bogus data may lead the caster to a creature or object thematically similar to the intended target. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Sigil of Algos
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 32, 6 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 60 ft. burst centered on magic rune (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 12 minutes (and see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (DC 16 + caster\rquote s Charisma modifier); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par This incantation, named after the Greek god of pain, allows you to scribe a potent rune of power upon a surface. When triggered, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
causes one or more creatures within 60 feet of the rune (treat as a burst) to suffer wracking pain if they fail a Fortitude save. The pain imposes a \endash 4 penalty
 on attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws. These effects last for 12 hours after the creature leaves the area of the spell.
\par Once triggered, the symbol becomes active and glows, lasting for 12 minutes. Any creature who enters the area while the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
is active is subject to its effects, whether or not that creature was in the area when it was triggered. A creature need only save against the symbol once as long as it remains within the area, though if it leaves the area and returns while the 
symbol is still active, it must save again. 
\par Until it is triggered, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 is inactive (though visible and legible at a range of up to 60 feet). To be effective, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 must always be
 placed in plain sight and in a prominent location. Covering or hiding the rune renders it ineffective (unless a creature removes the covering, in which case the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 works normally).
\par As a default, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 is triggered whenever a creatur
e does one or more of the following, as you select: looks at the rune; reads the rune; touches the rune; passes over the rune; or passes through a portal bearing the rune. Regardless of the trigger method or methods chosen, a creature more than 60 feet fr
om a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 can\rquote t trigger it (even if they meet one or more of the triggering conditions, such as reading it). Once the incantation is complete, the triggering conditions cannot be changed. 
\par In this case, \'93reading\'94 the rune means any attempt to study it, identify it, or fathom its meaning. Throwing a cover over a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 to render it inoperative triggers it if it reacts to touch. You can\rquote t use a }
{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 offensively; for instance, a touch-triggered rune remains untriggered if an item bearing the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 is used to touch a creature. Likewise, a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{
\fs20\cf0 cannot be placed on a weapon and set to activate when the weapon strikes a foe.
\par You can also set special triggering limitations of your own. These can be as simple or elaborate as you desire. Special conditions for triggering a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 can be based on a creature\rquote 
s name, identity, or allegiances, but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, Hit Dice, and hit points don\rquote t qualify. 
\par When scribing a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos}{\fs20\cf0 , you can specify a password or phrase that prevents a creature using it from triggering the rune. Anyone using the password remains immune to that particular rune\rquote 
s effects so long as the character remains within 60 feet of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos}{\fs20\cf0 . If the character leaves the radius and returns later, he must use the password again. You also can attune any number of creatures to the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos}{\fs20\cf0 , but doing this can extend the casting time. Attuning one or two creatures
 takes negligible time, and attuning a small group (up to ten creatures) extends the casting time by 1 hour. Attuning a large group (up to 25 creatures) takes one day. Attuning larger groups takes proportionately longer, as the GM sees fit. Any creature a
ttuned to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
cannot trigger it and is immune to its effects, even if within its radius when triggered. You are automatically considered attuned to your own sigils, and thus always ignore the effects and cannot inadvertently trigger them.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Read magic }{\fs20\cf0 allows you to identify a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 16). Of course, if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
is set to be triggered by reading it, this will trigger the symbol.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 can be removed by a successful }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 targeted solely on the rune. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 clean }{\fs20\cf0 spell has no effect on a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos}{\fs20\cf0 
. Destruction of the surface where a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 is inscribed destroys the rune but also triggers its effects.
\par Note: Magic traps such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 are hard to detect and disable. Characters can use the Search skill to find a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 and the Disable Device skill to thwart it. The DC in each case is 31.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Rare alchemical paints and herbs (purchase DC 20).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 500 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Reversal. The sigil affects anyone, including the caster and any bystanders, who looks at it or reads it. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Sigil of Lyssa
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 35, 7 successes (and see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, XP; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{
\fs20\cf0 70 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 60 ft. burst centered on magic rune (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 16 minutes (and see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{
\fs20\cf0 Will negates (DC 18 + caster\rquote s Charisma modifier); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par As the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation, except that the rune causes creatures within 60 feet of the rune (treat as a burst) to go temporarily insane if they fail their Will saves. Creatures affected by this spell behave randomly for th
e next 16 hours, as indicated on the following table:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 1d10\cell Behavior\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1\cell Wander away for 1 minute (unless prevented)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4402\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2\endash 6\cell Do nothing for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4402\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 7\endash 9\cell Attack nearest creature for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10\cell Act normally for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx520\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4402\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 Except on a result of 1, roll again each round on the creature\rquote 
s turn to see what the subject does that round. Wandering creatures leave the scene as if disinterested. Attackers are not at any special advantage when attacking them. Behavior is checked at the beginning of each creature\rquote 
s turn. Any confused creature that is attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next turn. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 won\rquote t end the insanity, but a }{\i\fs20\cf0 break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 spell or }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{
\fs20\cf0 incantation will.
\par Once triggered, the symbol becomes active and glows, lasting for 16 minutes. Any creature that enters the area while the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Lyssa }{\fs20\cf0 
is active is subject to its effects, whether or not that creature was in the area when it was triggered. A creature need only save against the symbol on
ce as long as it remains within the area, though if it leaves the area and returns while the symbol is still active, it must save again.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Read magic }{\fs20\cf0 allows you to identify a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Lyssa }{\fs20\cf0 with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 18). Of course, if the }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 
is set to be triggered by reading it, this will trigger the symbol.
\par Note: Magic traps such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Lyssa }{\fs20\cf0 are hard to detect and disable. Characters can use the Search skill to find a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Lyssa }{\fs20\cf0 and Disable Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 33.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Rare alchemical paints and herbs (purchase DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Experience Point Cost: }{\fs20\cf0 700 XP.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Reversal. The sigil affects anyone, including the caster and any bystanders, who looks at it or reads it.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Subjugate Outsider
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Calling)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 33, 6 successes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, M, SC, B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 
6 hours (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 55 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One outsider of up to CR 6 (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (DC 16 + caster\rquote s Charisma modifier); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par Casting this incantation attempts a dangerous act: to lure a creature from another dimension or plane to a specifically prepared trap. The called creature is held in the trap until it agrees to perform one service in return for its freedom.
\par The trap is a ward similar to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic circle }{\fs20\cf0 spell, but focused inward. The type of creature to be bound must be known and stated. If it has a specific, p
roper, or given name, this must be uttered during the incantation. If you wish to call a vivilor with this incantation, you can choose its abilities just as if you had cast the }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par The target creature must attempt a Will saving throw. If 
the saving throw succeeds, the creature resists the incantation. If the saving throw fails, the creature is immediately drawn to the trap (spell resistance does not keep the creature from being called). The creature can escape from the trap with a success
ful spell resistance roll or a successful Charisma check (DC 20 + the caster\rquote s Charisma modifier). It can try each method once per day. If it breaks loose, it can flee or attack you.
\par If the creature does not break free of the trap, you can keep it bound for
 as long as you dare. You can attempt to compel the creature to perform a service by describing the service and perhaps offering some sort of reward. You make a Charisma check opposed by the creature\rquote 
s Charisma check. The GM then assigns a bonus based on t
he service and reward, from +0 to +6. This bonus applies to your Charisma check. If the creature wins the opposed check, it refuses service. New offers, bribes, and the like can be made or the old ones reoffered every 24 hours. This can be repeated until 
t
he creature promises to serve, until it breaks free, or until you decide to get rid of it by means of some other spell or incantation. Impossible demands or unreasonable commands are never agreed to. If you roll a 1 on the Charisma check, the creature bre
aks free of the trap and can escape or attack you.
\par Once the requested service is completed, the creature need only so inform you to be instantly sent back whence it came. The creature might later seek revenge. If you assign some open-ended task that the cre
ature cannot complete though its own actions, the incantation remains in effect for a maximum of ten days, and the creature gains an immediate chance to break free. Note that a clever recipient can subvert some instructions.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 If you call an outsider of CR 11 to CR 15, the DC for the incantation is increased by +4. If you call an outsider of CR 16 or higher, the DC for the incantation is increased by +8.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Material Component: }{\fs20\cf0 Various rare alchemical pigments (purchase DC 25), which are used to trace a series of symbols in a circle on the floor. This circle is the trap for the outsider.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters: }{\fs20\cf0 12 required (not including primary caster).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 All casters (primary and secondary) receive one negative level (Fortitude save, DC 15, to remove).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Attack. The called outsider immediately attacks the casters, and is thereafter roams the world freely for 10 days before returning to its home plane or dimension.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Teleport
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleporting)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Skill Check: }{\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC 31, 5 successes, and Navigate DC 31, 1 success; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Two consecutive failed skill checks; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Components: }{\fs20\cf0 V, S, SC, B; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Casting Time: }{\fs20\cf0 60 minutes (minimum); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal and Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You, up to six touched willing creatures, and touched objects weighing up to 500 lb./level; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{
\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par This incantation instantly transports you to a designated destination up to 1,000 miles away. You can bring along up to 500 pounds o
f touched objects and up to six additional willing creatures (and their gear or objects up to their maximum load). All creatures to be transported must be in contact with one another, and at least one of those creatures must be in contact with you. The cr
eatures may be the secondary casters of the incantation, but they don\rquote t need to be.
\par You must have some clear idea of the location and layout of the destination. The clearer your mental image, the more likely the teleportation works. Areas of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more hazardous or even impossible.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 If you have global positioning system coordinates for your destination, decrease the Knowledge (arcane lore) and Navigate check DCs by \endash 2.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Secondary Casters: }{\fs20\cf0 Three required (not including primary caster).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Backlash: }{\fs20\cf0 All casters take 2d6 points of damage.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Failure: }{\fs20\cf0 Mirrorcast. If the second consecutive Knowledge (arcane lore) check fails by 5 or less, you arrive off target, appearing safely a random distance away from the d
estination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 x 1d10% of the distance that was to be traveled. The GM determines the direction off target randomly, such as by rolling 1d8 and designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, and so forth. 
\par If the second Knowledge (arcane lore) check fails by 6 or more, you wind up in an area that\rquote s visually or thematically opposite to the destination. The GM determines the point of arrival.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Creating New Incantations
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Designing unique incantations is a tricky balancing act. Incantations are intentionally constructed to be much more idiosyncratic than spells. Since incantations hinge on Knowledge (arcane lore) checks, it\rquote 
s possible for characters to gain access to powerful magic before they are ready for it.
\par Incantations are built from building blocks called seeds, which describe in general terms the magic effect you\rquote re trying to create. When you\rquote re designing your own incantation, you\rquote 
ll first choose which seed (or seeds) you want for the incantation.
\par Each seed comes with its own Knowledge (arcane lore) DC, which will serve as the base DC for the incantation you\rquote re designing. If you\rquote 
re designing an incantation with more than one seed, choose the most important one to provide the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC. Other seeds add one-third their Knowledge (arcane lore) DC to the total.
\par Next you\rquote ll apply a number of factors: modifications to the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC based on the specifics of your ritual. Increasing the base range of an incantation, for example, is a factor th
at will increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC. Reducing the duration of the incantation, on the other hand, is a factor that reduces the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC.
\par The third step is to identify components and options for the incantation. Some of your choices here may modify the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC further.
\par Next, you\rquote ll set the effective level of the incantation. In some respects, incantations are like 6th- through 9th-level spells. Assess how powerful the incantation is, and assign it an effective
 level. The effective level determines a number of relatively minor aspects to the incantation: how many total successes are required, the exact save DC of the incantation, and sometimes its precise range and duration.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Total Successes: }{\fs20\cf0 Equal to the incantation\rquote s effective level (minimum 6).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Save DC: }{\fs20\cf0 Equals 10 + incantation\rquote s effective level + caster\rquote s Charisma modifier.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration and Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Assume a caster level of twice the spell\rquote s level, using the same formula a spell would. For example an incantation built from a seed with a duration of \'93minutes\'94 would last 12 minutes if it
\rquote s effectively a 6th-level spell. The same incantation with Medium range can affect a target up to 220 feet away.
\par Finally, you\rquote ll decide how to put the new incantation in your game. Usually, a Research check will suffice to reveal it to the characters, but some incantations can be powerful tools in the hands of NPCs.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Create with Caution
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Fundamentally, it\rquote s important to realize that this system is meant as a starting point, not the last word. Anytime you have multiple modifiers to a single DC, the potential for accidental consequences or intentional abuse is there.

\par To keep incantations under control in your campaign, avoid creating incantations with Knowledge (arcane lore) DCs lower than 30. Conversely, don\rquote 
t allow any feat, class feature, or magic item that provides a large bonus to Knowledge (arcane lore) checks. Bonuses of +2 or even +4 are fine, but larger bonuses might unbalance your game.
\par GMs should emphasize how much faster, easier, and safer spells are than incantations. Every incantation you create should have at least one component that\rquote s difficult for the caster to deal with, such as an experience 
point cost, expensive material component, or significant backlash. Because incantations don\rquote t require spell slots\emdash or even spellcasting ability\emdash you need to make sure that characters can\rquote 
t simply cast incantations repeatedly, stopping only to sleep.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed Descriptions
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
Each seed description hereafter describes the relevant Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC for incantations using the seed and describes typical effects that incantations with that seed produce. Most of the parameters of the seed (range, duration, 
and so on) can be modified for a specific incantation by applying factors, described in the seed description and in Table: General Factors.
\par The following seeds can be used alone or in combination to create incantations for any purpose. If you\rquote re seeking an effect not described below, simply choose a seed that approximates what you\rquote 
re looking for, then apply an ad-hoc adjustment as you see fit.}{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Incantation Definitions
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The following terms are used extensively in this section
\par of the chapter:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Incantation: }{\fs20\cf0 Powerful ritual magic that requires successful Knowledge (arcane lore) checks to cast. Incantations don\rquote t require spellcasting ability, don\rquote t take up spell slots, can\rquote 
t be improved using metamagic feats, and need not be prepared ahead of time. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Factor: }{\fs20\cf0 An aspect of the incantation that\rquote s built in when the incantation is designed. Casters have no control over factors; they\rquote 
re an indelible part of the incantation. When a GM designs an incantation, factors are useful ways to customize an incantation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Option: }{\fs20\cf0 Aspects of the incantation that make it easier or harder, depending on choices the caster makes. Options provide modifiers to the caster\rquote s Knowledge (arcane lore) check.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seed: }{\fs20\cf0 The building blocks of incantation, seeds describe magical effects in general terms.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911
\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: General Factors\cell }\pard \s1\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 {\b0 \cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Factor\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 DC modifier\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Skill Checks\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Requires skill check other than Knowledge (arcane lore)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Casting Time\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 1 hour between checks\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row 
}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Range\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Touch to Close/Close to Touch\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2/\endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
{\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Close to Medium/Medium to Close\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2/\endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium to Long/Long to Medium\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2/\endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row 
}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Target\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Unwilling target must be helpless\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Limited targets (by HD, creature type, etc.)\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Single target to multiple targets\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Duration\cell }\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Rounds to minutes/minutes to rounds\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2/\endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Minutes to hours/hours to minutes\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4/\endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Hours to days /days to hours\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6/\endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Days to permanent/permanent to days\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10/\endash 4\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Material Components\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Expensive component (purchase DC 20\endash 24)
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Expensive component (purchase DC 25\endash 29)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Expensive component (purchase DC 30+)\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Expensive focus (purchase DC 25\endash 29)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Expensive focus (purchase DC 30+)\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row 
}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {XP Cost\cell }\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 per 100 XP (max 1,000 XP)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Extra Casters\cell }\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Up to 10 secondary casters\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 11\endash 100 secondary casters\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 101+ secondary casters\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 10\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Backlash\cell }\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\i\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Per 2d6 points of damage\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Caster is exhausted\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Per negative level caster suffers\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Caster reduced to \endash 1 hp\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Caster infected with disease\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Backlash affects secondary casters too\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 1}{\b\fs20\cf0 \cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4623\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5911\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Afflict
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One living creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You afflict the target with a \endash 2 morale penalty on attack rolls, checks, and saving throws. For each additional \endash 1 penalty assessed on either the target\rquote 
s attack rolls, checks, or saving throws, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par You may also develop an incantation with this seed that afflicts the target with a \endash 1 penalty on caster level checks, a \endash 1 penalty to an ability score, a \endash 1 penalty to spell resistance, or a \endash 
1 penalty to some other aspect of the target. For each additional \endash 1 penalty assessed in one of the above categories, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4.
\par You can afflict a character\rquote s ability scores to the point where they reach 0, save for Constitution where 1 is the minimum. If you\rquote re applying ability penalties, you can\rquote t lengthen the duration. Instead, you can increase 
the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2 to turn the penalties into temporary ability damage, or increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC by +10 to turn the penalties into permanent ability drain. If you increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +
2, you can afflict whichever one of the target\rquote s senses you select: sight, touch, hearing, taste, touch, or a special sense the target possesses. If the target fails its saving throw, the sense you select doesn\rquote t function for the spell
\rquote s duration, with all attendant penalties that apply for losing the specified sense.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Options: }{\fs20\cf0 Useful options for incantations with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 afflict }{\fs20\cf0 seed include having a hair, fingernail, or other part of the target (+2 bonus); having the target present and helpless during 
the incantation (+6 bonus); or building an elaborate model or doll of the target (+4 bonus).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Animate Dead
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 34; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more corpses touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You can turn the bones or bodies of dead creatures into undead that follow your spoken commands. The undead can follow you, or they can remain in an area and attack any creature (or a specific type of creature) entering the place. The un
dead remain animated until they are destroyed. (A destroyed undead can\rquote t be animated again.) Intelligent undead can follow more sophisticated commands.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 seed (which is more potent than the }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 spell) allows you create 20 HD of unde
ad. For each additional 1 HD of undead created, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1. The undead you create remain under your control indefinitely.
\par You can naturally control 20 HD of undead creatures you\rquote ve personally created, regardless of 
the method you used. If you exceed this number, newly created creatures fall under your control, and excess undead from previous castings become uncontrolled (you choose which creatures are released). Any undead you command through a class-based ability t
o command or rebuke undead do not count toward the limit.
\par For each additional 2 HD of undead to be controlled, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1. Only undead in excess of 20 HD created with this seed can be controlled using this DC adjustm
ent. If you want to both create and control more than 20 HD of undead, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC by +3 per additional 2 HD of undead.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Type of Undead: }{\fs20\cf0 All types of undead can be created with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 
seed, although creating more powerful undead increases the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC, according to the chart below. The GM must set the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC for undead not included on the chart, using similar undead as a basis for compa
rison.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Undead\cell }\pard\plain 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knowledge (arcane lore) DC Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium or smaller skeleton\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 12\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium or smaller zombie
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Animating spirit\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Frightful spirit\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large skeleton\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 8\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large zombie\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Groaning spirit\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Small or smaller liquefied zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium liquefied zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \endash 2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Weakening spirit\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Mummy\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Large liquefied zombie
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +0\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Possessing spirit\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge skeleton\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge liquefied zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Ash wraith\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Huge zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +4\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Gargantuan or Colossal skeleton\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Gargantuan or Colossal zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +8\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Gargantuan liquefied zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Colossal liquefied zombie\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Vampire\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Hit Dice +4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3038 \cellx2930\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1630 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs24 Seed: Armor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par You grant a creature additional armor, providing a +4 bonus to Defense. The bonus is either an equipment bonus or a natural armor bonus, whichever you select. Unlike mundane armor, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor }{\fs20\cf0 seed provides an intangible prot
ection that entails no armor check penalty, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction. Incorporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass the }{\i\fs20\cf0 armor }{\fs20\cf0 
seed the way they can ignore normal armor. For each additional point of Defense bonus, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par You can also grant a creature a +1 bonus to Defense with different bonus types, including deflection, insight, sacred, or others. For each additional point of Defense bonus in one of these types, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +10.

\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Banish
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 34; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets: }{\fs20\cf0 One or more summoned or called creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{
\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You force summoned or called creatures back to where they came from. You can banish up to 14 HD of such creatures. For each additional Hit Die of creatures you banish, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1. To banish a creature that\rquote 
s not summoned or called, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6 if the target creatures are limited to elementals and outsiders, or by +10 if the target creatures are of a different type.
\par In general, creatures return whence they came. Some creatur
es, such as vivilors, return to the edge of Shadow. Elementals fade into nothingness, their elemental nature suffusing and dispersing throughout the immediate area. Outsiders likewise disappear to a place beyond Shadow, though some eventually find their w
ay back with dim memories of their previous sojourn in the mundane world. Other creatures simply reappear wherever they were before they were summoned.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Compel
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One living creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will negates; }
{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You compel a target to follow a specified course of activity.
\par At the basic level of effect, an incantation using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 compel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed must be worded in such a manner as to make the activity sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect. However, urging a drago
n to stop attacking your friends so that everyone could jointly assault a mob safehouse elsewhere is a reasonable use of the incantation\rquote s power.
\par The compelled course of activity can continue for the entire duration, such as in the case of the dragon mentio
ned above. If the compelled activity can be completed in a shorter time, the incantation ends when the subject finishes what he was asked to do. You can instead specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you 
might compel a rock star to give her the first panhandler she meets a ride in her limo. If the condition is not met before the incantation using this seed expires, the activity is not performed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Conceal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal or touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You or a creature or object up to 2,000 lb.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None or Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No or Yes (harmless, object)
\par You can conceal a creature or object touched from sight, even from darkvision. If the target is a creature carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too, rendering the creature invisible, with all the rules that apply to invisibility. An incantation using the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 seed ends if the subject attacks any creature. Actio
ns directed at unattended objects do not break the incantation, and causing harm indirectly is not an attack. To create invisibility that lasts regardless of the actions of the subject, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4.
\par Alternatively, yo
u can conceal the exact location of the subject so that it appears to be about 2 feet away from its true location; this increases the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. The subject benefits from a 50% miss chance as if it had full concealment. Howeve
r, unlike actual full concealment, this displacement effect does not prevent enemies from targeting him normally.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also be used to block out divinatory spells such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying }{\fs20\cf0 spells, spell-like effects, and incantations developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed; this increases the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. In all cases where incantations are used against the subject of a incantation using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 conceal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed for this purpose, an opposed Knowledge (arcane lore) check determines which incantation works.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Conjure
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 0 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving matter, 20 cu. ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No 
\par You create a nonmagical, un
attended object of up to 20 cubic feet. You must succeed at an appropriate skill check to make a complex item, such as a Craft (mechanical) check to make a motorcycle. The object can be composed of any organic or manufactured subtance (or combination of s
ubstances) with a hardness of 10 or less. For each additional cubic foot of matter created, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) DC by +2.
\par Attempting to use any created object as a material component causes the spell or incantation to fail and the object to disappear.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Contact
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 See text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets: }{\fs20\cf0 One other creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You forge a telepathic bond with a particular creature with whom you are familiar 
(or can currently see directly or through magical means) and can converse back and forth. The subject recognizes you if it knows you. It can answer in like manner immediately, though it does not have to.
\par You can forge a communal bond among more than two cr
eatures. For each additional creature contacted, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1. The bond can be established only among willing subjects. For telepathic communication through the bond regardless of language, increase the Knowledge (ar
cane lore) check DC by +4. No special influence is established as a result of the bond, only the power to communicate at a distance.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Delude
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Illusion
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Visual figment that can extend up to 12 10-ft. cubes (S); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Minutes; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Will disbelief (if interacted with); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par An incantation developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 delude }{\fs20\cf0 seed creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by you. You can move the image wi
thin the limits of the size of the effect by concentrating (the image is otherwise stationary).
\par The image disappears when struck by an opponent unless you cause the illusion to react appropriately. For an illusion that includes audible, olfactory, tactile,
 taste, and thermal aspects, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2 per extra aspect. Even realistic tactile and thermal illusions can\rquote t deal damage, however.
\par For each additional image with the effect, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) chec
k DC by +1. For an illusion that follows a script determined by you, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. The illusion can include intelligible speech if you wish.
\par For an illusion that makes any area appear t
o be something other than it is (such as making a swamp appear as a grassland or a village), increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. Additional components, such as sounds, can be added as noted above. Concealing creatures requires additional 
incantation development using this or other seeds.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Destroy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Long; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Targets: }{\fs20\cf0 1 creature, or up to a 10-foot cube of nonliving matter; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Fortitude half; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You deal 10d6 points of damage to the target. The damage is of no particular type or energy\emdash it is purely destructive. For each additional 1d6 points of damage dealt, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. If the target is reduced to 
\endash 
10 hit points or less (or a construct, object, or undead is reduced to 0 hit points), it is destroyed as if disintegrated, leaving behind only a trace of fine dust. Up to a 10- foot cube of nonliving matter is affected, so an incantation using the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed destroys only part of any very large object or structure targeted.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed affects even magical matter, energy fields, and force effects that are normally immune to damage, such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 wall of force. }{\fs20\cf0 Such effects are automatically destroyed. Incantations using the 
}{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 seed may also be destroyed, though you must succeed at an opposed Knowledge (arcane lore) check against the other caster to bring down such an effect.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Dispel
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One creature or object; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }
{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You can end ongoing spells and incantations that have been cast on a creature or object, temporarily suppress the magical
 abilities of a magic item, or end ongoing spells and incantations (or at least their effects) within an area. A dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 
seed can defeat all spells, even those not normally subject to }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 seed can dispel (but not counter) the ongoing effects of supernatural abilities as well as spells, and it affects spell-like effects just as it affects spells.
\par One object, creature, or spell is the target of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 seed. You make a dispel chec
k against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in effect on the object or crea- ture. A dispel check is 1d20 + 10 against a DC of 11 + the target spell\rquote 
s caster level. For each additional +1 on your dispel check, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.
\par If you target an object or creature that is the effect of an ongoing spell (such as a vivilor summoned by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 summon vivilor }{\fs20\cf0 spell), make a dispel check to end the spell that conjured the object or creature.
\par If the object you target is a magic item, you make a dispel check against the item\rquote s caster level. If you succeed, all the item\rquote 
s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the 
effect. An extradimensional space targeted by the dispel is destroyed, and anything within it is instantly ejected. A magic item\rquote s physical properties are unchanged.
\par You automatically succeed at your dispel check against any spell that you cast yourself.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Energy
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Evocation [Acid, Fire, Electricity, Cold, or Sonic/Concussion]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium, or touched creature or object of up to 2,000 lbs.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Area: }{\fs20\cf0 
A bolt 5 ft. wide to 300 ft. long; or 5-ft.-radius emanation; or a wall whose area is up to one 200-ft. square; or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 20 ft.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous or hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 Reflex half; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You can work with whichever one of five energy types you choose: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion. You can cast the energy forth as a bolt, imbue an object with the energy, or create a freestanding manifestation of the energy.
\par If your incantation developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed releases a bolt, that bolt instantaneously deals 10d6 points of damage of the appropriate energy type, and all creatures in bolt\rquote 
s area must make a Reflex save for half damage. For each additional 1d6 points of damage dealt, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. The bolt begins at your fingertips.
\par If you wish to imbue another creature with the ability to use an energy bolt as a spell-like ability at its option or when a particular condition is met, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +12.
\par You can also cause a creature
 or object to emanate the specific energy type to a radius of 10 feet. The emanated energy deals 2d6 points of energy damage per round against unprotected creatures (the target creature is susceptible if not separately warded or otherwise resistant to the
 energy). For each additional 1d6 points of damage emanated, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par You may also create a wall, half-circle, circle, dome, or sphere of the desired energy that emanates the energy. One side of the wall, selected
 by you, sends forth waves of energy, dealing 2d4 points of energy damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of energy damage to those past 10 feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and each round that a creature enter
s
 or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 6d6 points of energy damage to any creature passing through it. The wall deals double damage to undead creatures, provided the undead creature is not immune to the selected energy type. For each additio
nal 1d6 points of damage, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par You can also use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed to create an incantation that carefully releases and balances the emanation of cold, electricity, and fire, creating specific weather effects for a period of 24 hours. Using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed this way has a base Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC of 34. The area extends to a two-mile-radius centered on you. Once the incantation is cast, the weather takes 10 minutes to manifest.
\par With the base use, you can\rquote t directly target a creature or object, though indirect effects are possible. But you can create cold snaps, heat waves, thunderstorms, fogs, blizzards \emdash 
even a tornado that moves randomly in the affected area. Creating targeted damaging effects requires an additional use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 energy }{\fs20\cf0 seed.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Foresee
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous (see text)
\par You can foretell the immediate future, or gain information about specific questions.
\par You are 90% likely to receive a meaningful reading of the future of the next 30 minutes. If successful, you know whether a particular action will bring good results, bad results, or no result. For each additional 30 minutes into the future, multiply the K
nowledge (arcane lore) check DC by 2.
\par For better results, you can pose up to ten specific questions (one per round while you concentrate), but the base Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC for such an attempt is 32.
\par Your questions reverberate through dimension interstices beyond the veil of Shadow, seeking an answer from some willing entity. The answers return in a language you understand, but use only one-word answers such as \'93yes,\'94 \'93no,\'94 \'93maybe,\'94 
\'93never,\'94 \'93irrelevant,\'94 or some other one-word answer. All questions answered are 90% likely to be answered truthfully. However, a specific incantation using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed can only be cast once every five weeks.

\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed is also useful for incantations requiring specific information before functioning, such as those that use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 seeds.
\par You can also use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 foresee }{\fs20\cf0 seed to gain one basic piece of information about a living target: location, level, class, alignment, or other special ability (or an object\rquote s magical abilities, if any). For kno
wledge revealed in each additional category, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. To obtain information about an object, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Fortify
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par Incantations using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed grant a +1 enhancement bonus to whichever one of the following you choose:
\par \bullet  Any one ability score.
\par \bullet  Any one kind of saving throw.
\par \bullet  Spell resistance.
\par \bullet  Natural armor bonus.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also grant energy resistance 1 for one energy type or 1 temporary hit point. For each additional +1 bonus, point of energy resistance, or hit point, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed has a base Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC is 34 if it grants a +1 bonus of a type other than enhancement (such as luck or insight). For each additional +1 bonus of a type 
other than enhancement, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. If you apply a factor to make the duration permanent, the bonus must be an inherent bonus, and the maximum inherent bonus allowed is +5.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also grant SR 22, and each additional point of spell resistance increases the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4 (each \endash 1 to spell resistance reduces the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by 
\endash 2). If an incantation with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed grants an inanimate object an ability score it wouldn\rquote t normally possess (such as Intelligence), the incantation must also incorporate the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 
seed.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 fortify }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also grant damage reduction 10/+1. For each additional point of damage reduction, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) chec
k DC by +1. For each additional point of required weapon enhancement above +1, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Heal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Yes (harmless; see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par Incantations developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 seed channel positive energy into a creature to wipe away disease and injury. Such an incantation completely cures all diseases, blindness,
 deafness, hit point damage, and temporary ability damage. To restore permanent ability damage, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 heal }{\fs20\cf0 seed neutralizes poisons in the subject\rquote 
s system so that no additional damage or effects are suffered.
\par It offsets feeblemindedness and cures mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain. It dispels all magical effects penalizing the character\rquote s abilities, including effects caused by spells and even incantations developed with the }{
\i\fs20\cf0 afflict }{\fs20\cf0 seed. Only a single application of the incantation is needed to simultaneously achieve all these effects. It does not restore levels or Constitution points lost due to death.
\par To dispel all negative energy levels afflicting the target, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Life
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Dead creature touched; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
None (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (harmless)
\par An incantation developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 seed will restore life and complete vigor to any deceased creature. The condition of the remains is not a factor. So long as some small portion of the creature\rquote 
s body still exists, it can be returned to life, but the portion receiving the incantation must have been part of the creature\rquote s body at the time of death.
\par The creature is immediately restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of prepared spells. However, the subject loses 1 level (or 1 point of Constitution if the subject was 1st level). You cannot revive someone who has died of old age.

\par You can also use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 life }{\fs20\cf0 seed to give an animal or plant a soul, personality, and sentience. For each point of Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma you give your creat
ion, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1. You can\rquote t create a creature with a higher Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma than you have.
\par The newly sentient animal or plant is friendly toward you. The newly sentient creature understands one language automatically; to give the creature the ability to speak, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Reflect
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Personal; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Until expended or 12 hours 
\par Attacks targeted against you rebound on the original attacker. Each use of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 
seed in an incantation is effective against one type of attack only: spells (and incantations and spell-like effects), ranged attacks, or melee attacks. To reflect an area spell, wher
e you are not the target but are caught in the vicinity, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +8. A single successful use of }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 expends its protection.
\par Incantations developed with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed against spells and spell-like effects retu
rn spell effects of up to 1st level. For each additional level of spells to be reflected, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. Other incantations are treated as 6th-level spells for this purpose.
\par Against 0- to 5th-level spells, the desired effect is automatically reflected. An opposed Knowledge (arcane lore) check is required when the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 
seed is used against another incantation. If the enemy caster gets his incantation through by winning the Knowledge (arcane lore) check, the incantation using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed is not expended, just momentarily suppressed.
\par If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed is used against a melee attack or ranged attack, five such attacks are automatically reflected back on the original attacker. For each additional attack reflected, i
ncrease the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. The reflected attack rebounds on the attacker using the same attack roll. Once the allotted attacks are reflected, the incantation using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reflect }{\fs20\cf0 seed is expended.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Reveal
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Divination
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 See text; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 Magical sensor; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Minutes (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{
\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No
\par You can hear or see some distant location almost as if you were there. To both hear and see, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. Distance is not a factor, but the locale must be known\emdash 
a place familiar to you or an obvious one (such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees). The incantation creates an invisible sensor, similar to that created by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 scrying }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, that can be dispelled. Lead sheeting or magical protection (such as }{\i\fs20\cf0 nondetection}{\fs20\cf0 ) blocks the incantation, and you sense that the incantation is so blocked.
\par If you prefer to create a mobile (speed 30 feet) sensor that you control, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. To allow magically enhanced senses to work through an incantation built with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4.
\par To cast any spell whose range is Touch or greater from the 
sensor instead of you, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6; however, you must maintain line of effect to the sensor at all times. If your line of effect is obstructed, the incantation ends.
\par Increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6 if you use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed to pierce illusions and see things as they really are. You can see through normal and magical darkness, notice secret doors hidden by magic, see the exact locations of creatures or objects under }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
displacement }{\fs20\cf0 effects, see invisible creatures or objects normally, see through illusions, and see the true form of polymorphed, changed, or transmuted things. The range of such sight is 120 feet. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 reveal }{\fs20\cf0 
seed cannot identify creatures or objects within extradimensional spaces.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Slay
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Necromancy [Death]
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 34; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Medium; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One living creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Fortitude partial; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par An incantation developed using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 seed snuffs out the life force of a living creature, killing it instantly. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 
seed kills a creature of up to 20 HD. The subject is entitled to a Fortitude saving throw to survive the attack. If the save is successful, it instead takes 4d6 points of d
amage. For each additional 20 HD affected (or each additional creature affected), increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +8.
\par Alternatively, you can use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 slay }{\fs20\cf0 seed in an incantation to suppress the life force of the target by bestowing 2d4 nega
tive levels on the target (the incantation bestows half as many negative levels on a successful Fortitude save). For each additional 1d4 negative levels bestowed, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. If the subject has at least as many neg
ative levels as Hit Dice, it dies. Assuming the subject survives, the negative levels will become permanently drained levels 24 hours later if the subject fails a Fortitude saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Summon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Summoning)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Effect: }{\fs20\cf0 One summoned creature; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Rounds (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 
Will negates (see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes (see text)
\par You can summon an outsider. It appears where you designate and acts immediately, on your turn, if its spell resistanc
e is overcome and it fails a Will saving throw. It attacks your opponents to the best of its ability. If you can communicate with the outsider, you can direct it not to attack, to attack particular enemies, or to perform other actions.
\par The incantation conjures an outsider you select of CR 6 or less. For each +1 CR of the summoned outsider, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par If you increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6, you can summon a creature of CR 6 or less from another monster type, such as giant, aberration, or undead.
\par For each +1 CR of the summoned creature, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. The summoned creature is assumed to have been plucked from some faraway place (perhaps somewhere beyond Shadow).
 The summoned creature attacks your opponents to the best of its ability, or if you can communicate with it, it will perform other actions.
\par However, the summoning ends if the creature is asked to perform a task inimical to its nature, such as commanding a good creature to attack an innocent, or commanding any creature to commit suicide.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Transform
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Transmutation
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Close; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 One creature or inanimate, nonmagical object; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{
\fs20\cf0 Fortitude negates (and see text); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par Incantations using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 seed change the subject into another form of creature or object. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the subject\rquote s normal form. If you want tra
nsform a creature into a nonmagical, inanimate object, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +10. If you want to change a creature of one type into another type (for example, undead to outsider), increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by
 +5.
\par Transformations involving nonmagical inanimate substances with hardness are more difficult; for each 2 points of hardness, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 seed can also change its target into someone specific. To tran
sform an object or creature into the specific likeness of another individual, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. If the transformed creature doesn\rquote 
t have the level or Hit Dice of its new likeness, it can only use the abilities of the creature at its own level or Hit Dice.
\par If slain or destroyed, the transformed creature or object reverts to its original form. The subject\rquote s equipment, if any, remains untransformed.
\par The transformed creature or object acquires the physical and natural abilitie
s of the creature or object it has been changed into while retaining its own mind and mental ability scores. Mental abilities include personality, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in its Constituti
o
n score), alignment, base attack bonus, base saves, extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities 
i
nclude armor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical qualities (presence or absence of wings, number of extremities, etc.), and possibly hardness. Creatures transformed into inanimate objects do not gain the benefit of their untransformed physical ab
ilities, and may well be blind, deaf, dumb, and unfeeling.
\par The transformed subject can have no more Hit Dice than you have or that the subject has (whichever is greater). In any case, for each Hit Die the assumed form has above 15 HD, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Transport
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Conjuration (Teleporting)
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 500 lb.; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 
Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None and Will negates (object, subject); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 No and Yes (object, subject)
\par Incantations using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 seed instantly transport you to a designated destination up to 1,000 miles away. For each additional 500 miles you wish to travel, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par For each additional 50 pounds in objects (beyond the base 500 pounds), increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2. To bring along willing creatures, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2 per three additional creatures.
\par You need not make a saving throw, nor is spell resistance applicable to you. Only objects worn or carried (attended) by another unwilling creature receive saving throws and spell resistance. For an incantation intended to
 transport unwilling creatures, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6.
\par You must have at least a reliable description of the place to which you are transporting. If you attempt to use the }{\i\fs20\cf0 transport }{\fs20\cf0 seed with insufficient or misleading informat
ion, you disappear and simply reappear in your original location.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Seed: Ward
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Abjuration
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Knowledge (arcane lore) DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Range: }{\fs20\cf0 Touch; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Target: }{\fs20\cf0 Creature or object of 1,000 lbs. or less touched; or 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on you; }{\b\fs20\cf0 
Duration: }{\fs20\cf0 Hours (D); }{\b\fs20\cf0 Saving Throw: }{\fs20\cf0 None; }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 Yes
\par You can grant a creature protection from damage of a specified type. You can protect a creature from standard damage or from energy damage. You can protect a creature or area from magic. Altern
atively, you can hedge out a type of creature from a specified area.
\par A ward against standard damage protects a creature from two of the following damage types: ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing. For a ward against all types, increase the Knowl
edge (arcane lore) check DC by +4. Each round, the incantation created with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 
seed absorbs the first 5 points of damage the creature would otherwise take, regardless of whether the source of the damage is natural or magical. For each additional point of protection, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +2.
\par A ward against energy grants a creature protection from whichever one you select of the five energy types: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion. Each round, the incantation
 absorbs the first 5 points of damage the creature would otherwise take from the specified energy type, regardless of whether the source of damage is natural or magical. The incantation protects the recipient\rquote 
s equipment as well. For each additional point of protection, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +1.
\par A ward against a specific type of creature prevents bodily contact from whichever one of several monster types you select. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail 
and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. The protection ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or intentionally moves within 5 feet of the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to ove
rcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par A ward against magic creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere (with radius 10 feet) that surrounds you and excludes all spell effects of up to 1st level. Alternatively, you can ward just the
 target and not create the radius effect. For each additional level of spells to be excluded, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by +6. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the ward, and such spells fail to affect 
a
ny target within the ward. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from magic items. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the ward. You can leave and return to the protected area without penalty (unless the 
incantation specifically targets a creature and does not provide a radius effect).
\par Instead of creating an incantation that uses the }{\i\fs20\cf0 ward }{\fs20\cf0 seed to nullify all spells of a given and lower level, you can create a ward that nullifies a specific spell (or specifi
c set of spells). For each specific spell so nullified, increase the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC by only +1 per spell level above 1st. For example, if you want to create an incantation that protects you specifically against }{\i\fs20\cf0 
charm person }{\fs20\cf0 and }{\i\fs20\cf0 dominate}{\fs20\cf0 , the Knowledge (arcane lore) check DC would increase by +0 and +4, respectively.
\par The ward could be brought down by a targeted }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell. Incantations using the }{\i\fs20\cf0 dispel }{\fs20\cf0 seed may bring down a ward if the enemy spellcaster succeeds at a caster level check.
\par }}