{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f200\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f201\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f203\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f204\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f205\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f206\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f207\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f216\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f217\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f219\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f220\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f221\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f222\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f223\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs40\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title the d20 Modern Roleplaying Game contains the basic}{\author AKSmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2003\mo10\dy7\hr9\min55}{\revtim\yr2003\mo10\dy30\hr15\min5}{\version21}{\edmins56}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords13060}
{\nofchars74447}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws91426}{\vern8223}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120
\dgvspace163\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectlinegrid326\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\f0\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MAGIC ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Items and Mundanes
\par }{\fs20\cf0 For the most part, magic items won\rquote t function for a mundane. Sure, the mundane might feel joy and attachement to such an item, or perhaps fear and loathing, depending on the pe
rson and the function of the item, but rarely does a mundane recognize and understand as such an item for what it truly is. Most of the world doesn\rquote 
t believe in magic or the supernatural. So, for these people, a magic item that actually operates while in their possession is either seen as a trick or a special effect, or the person convinces himself that he didn\rquote 
t really see what he thinks he just saw. In some cases, such an event might disturb a mundane to such an extent that psychological harm occurs.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Incantation-Based FX Items}{\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Making most magic items is a solitary endeavor, one in which the spellcaster spends days (perhaps weeks) preparing an item to receive and permanently hold a spell. It is possible to do the same thing with an incantation, but this re
quires the help of secondary casters. This has a greater chance of failure than infusing an item with a spell as the process requires both a Craft check and the appropriate skill check for casting the incantation.
\par The person creating the item must have the appropriate item creation feat or ability (such as the Mage\rquote 
s Scribe Scroll ability), spend the appropriate amount of time fashioning the item, succeed at the required Wealth check (purchase DC = one-fifth of the item\rquote s listed purchase DC), and spend the 
appropriate amount of XP. Then the creator must succeed at the required Craft check. If this check fails, the materials are used up but the XP are not spent. If it succeeds, then the item has been successfully prepared to receive the incantation.
\par The person who created the item must then serve as the primary caster in performing the desired incantation. This occurs as written in the incantation\rquote 
s description. Failed incantations have all the usual repercussions, plus the item has been tarnished and must be prepared before another attempt can be made to infuse it with the incantation.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Determining the Purchase DC
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Calculating the purchase DCs for items created to hold incantations is technically impossible, as incantations have neither caster levels nor spell levels. For the purpose of calculating and item\rquote 
s purchase DC, use the following conversions.
\par Caster Level = 5 + total number of successful skill checks required to complete the incantation (minimum 11).
\par Spell Level = total number of successful skill checks required to complete the incantation.
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ARMOR AND SHIELDS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Below are some examples of modern-day magical armor and shields.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bulletproof Shirt
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 This light shirt provides the same protection as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 +1 leather jacket}{\fs20\cf0 
. In addition, the wearer gains the benefits of a continuous }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets }{\fs20\cf0 spell (damage reduction 5/+1 against arrows, bullets, and crossbow bolts).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 22; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Riot Shield of Fear
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Introduced by police forces that employ magical gear, this riot shield provides an enhancement bonus to Defense (+1 to +3). At its wielder\rquote s command, the shield can also cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 cause fear }{\fs20\cf0 
three times per day as a 3rd-level Acolyte.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26 (+1), 31 (+2), 36 (+3); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 6 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Scalemail of the Dragon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This suit, which weighs half as much as a normal suit of scalemail, provides an enhancement bonus to Defense (+1 to +3). In addition, the armor has an arcane sp
ell failure chance of 10%, a maximum Dexterity bonus of +6, and no armor penalty. Speed while wearing }{\i\fs20\cf0 scalemail of the dragon }{\fs20\cf0 is 30 feet for Medium creatures and 20 feet for Small creatures.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Armor (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33 (+1), 38 (+2), 43 (+3); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 15 lb.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Armor and Shield Special Abilities
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Most magic armor and shields only have enhancement bonuses. Such items can also have the special abilities detailed here. Armor or a shield with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 
\par Acid Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 A suit of armor or a shield with this enchantment normally has a dull gray appearance. The armor absorbs the first 10 points of acid damage per attack that the wearer would normally take (similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
resist energy }{\fs20\cf0 spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animated }{\fs20\cf0 (shields only): Upon command, an animated shield floats within 2 feet of the wielder, protecting her as if she were using it herself but freeing up both her hands. Only one shield can protect a character at a time.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bashing }{\fs20\cf0 (shields only): This shield
 is made to make a shield bash. No matter what the size of the attacker, a large bashing shield or bashing riot shield deals 1d8 points of damage; a small bashing shield or bashing buckler deals 1d6 points of damage. The shield acts as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
+1 weapon }{\fs20\cf0 when used to bash. (Impromptu shields cannot be bashing shields.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Blinding }{\fs20\cf0 (shields only): A shield with this enchantment flashes with a brilliant light up to twice per day upon command of the wielder. All within 20 feet except the wielde
r must succeed at a Reflex saving throw (DC 14) or be blinded for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Catching }{\fs20\cf0 (shields only): A shield with this ability attracts ranged weapons to it. It has a deflection bonus of +1 versus ranged weapons because project
iles and thrown weapons veer toward it. Additionally, any projectile or thrown weapon aimed at a target within 5 feet of the shield\rquote s wearer diverts from its original target and targets the shield\rquote 
s bearer instead. (If the wielder has total cover with resp
ect to the attacker, the projectile or thrown weapon is not diverted.) Additionally, those attacking the wearer with ranged weapons ignore any miss chances that would normally apply. Projectiles and thrown weapons that have an enhancement bonus higher tha
n the shield\rquote s base Defense bonus are not diverted to the wearer (but the shield\rquote 
s increased Defense bonus still applies against these weapons). The wielder activates this ability with a command word and can shut it off by repeating the command word.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cold Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 
A suit of armor or a shield with this enchantment normally has a bluish, icy hue or is adorned with furs. The armor absorbs the first 10 points of cold damage per attack that the wearer would normally take (similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy }{
\fs20\cf0 spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Damage Reduction }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only): This suit of armor grants the wearer damage reduction of a specific type:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Damage Reduction\cell Purchase DC Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5/+1\cell +1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 
\cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 10/+1\cell +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1320 \cellx2520\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Electricity Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 A suit of armor or a shield with
\par this enchantment normally has a bluish hue and often bears a storm or lightning motif. The armor absorbs the first 10 points of electrical damage per attack that the wearer would normally take (similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy }{\fs20\cf0 
spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fire Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 A suit of armor or a shield with this enchantment normally has a reddish hue and often is decorated with a draconic motif. The armor absorbs the first 10 points of fire damage per attack that the wearer wo
uld normally take (similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy }{\fs20\cf0 spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fortification: }{\fs20\cf0 This suit of armor or shield produces a magical force that protects vital areas of the wearer more effectively. When a critical hit or sneak attack is scored o
n the wearer, there is a chance that the critical hit or sneak attack is negated and damage is instead rolled normally:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fortification Type\cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Chance for Normal Damage\cell Purchase DC Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Light\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 25%\cell +1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Moderate\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 75%\cell +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Heavy\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 100%\cell +3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1308 \cellx1200\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1800 \cellx3000\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1560 \cellx4560\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Ghost Touch: }{\fs20\cf0 
This armor or shield seems almost translucent. Both its enhancement bonus and its armor bonus count against the attacks of incorporeal creatures. Further, it can be picked up, moved, and worn by incorporeal creatures at any time. Incorporeal creatures gai
n the armor or shield\rquote s enhancement bonus against both corporeal and incorporeal attacks, and they can still pass freely through solid objects.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glamered }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only): A suit of armor with this capability appears normal. Upon comman
d, the armor changes shape and form to assume the appearance of a normal set of clothing. The armor retains all its properties (including weight) when glamered. Only a }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 
spell or similar magic reveals the true nature of the armor when disguised.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 
This type of armor is jet black and blurs the wearer whenever she tries to hide, granting a +5 competence bonus on Hide checks (essentially a bonus for an extremely favorable condition). This bonus does not st
ack with obscuring or blinding-based Hide check bonuses. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silent Moves }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only): This armor is well oiled and magically constructed so that it not only makes little sound, but it dampens sound around it. It adds a +10 competence bonus on its wearer\rquote 
s Move Silently checks. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Slick }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only): Slick armor seems coated at all times with a slightly greasy oil. It adds a +5 competence bonus on its wearer\rquote s Escape Artist checks. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sonic Resistance: }{\fs20\cf0 A suit of armor or a shield with this enchantment normally has a gli
stening appearance. The armor absorbs the first 10 points of sonic/concussion damage per attack that the wearer would normally take (similar to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 resist energy }{\fs20\cf0 spell).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spell Resistance }{\fs20\cf0 (armor only): This enchantment grants the armor\rquote s wearer spell resistance while the armor is worn.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Spell Resistance\cell Purchase DC Modifier\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 15\cell +1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 19\cell +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 
\cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 23\cell +3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1188 \cellx1080\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx2520\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Sponsorship: }{\fs20\cf0 
This suit of armor or a shield is emblazoned with corporate logos, emblems, and advertisements. The armor gains no special benefits but is cheaper to purchase.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 \endash 2.
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {WEAPONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Bladegun
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 bladegun }{\fs20\cf0 is a magic pistol that transforms into a magic short sword (and back again) upon command. Each }{\i\fs20\cf0 bladegun }{\fs20\cf0 
is a specific make of handgun. The handgun and short sword versions of the weapon possess the same enhancement bonus (+1 to +3). Turning the handgun into a short sword\emdash and vice versa\emdash  takes a move action. A }{\i\fs20\cf0 bladegun }{
\fs20\cf0 in handgun form must be loaded with ammunition to fire (as any gun).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 16 + pistol\rquote s purchase DC (+1), 21 + pistol\rquote s purchase DC (+2), 26 + pistol\rquote s purchase DC (+3); }{
\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 Varies (as pistol or short sword).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chain Saw of the Psycho
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This battered chain saw has a +1 to +3 enhancement bonus. It constantly drips oil and small amounts of blood, and it does not require gas to activate. The chain saw deals x 3 damage (instead of x 2 damage) on a successful critical hit.
\par Any creature with a good allegiance who handles a }{\i\fs20\cf0 chain saw of the psycho }{\fs20\cf0 gains two negative levels. These negative levels remain so long as the chain saw is in hand and disappear wh
en it is no longer wielded. These negative levels never result in actual level loss, but they cannot be overcome in any way while the chain saw is wielded.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 10th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 25 (+1), 30 (+2), 35 (+3); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 10 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cloudkill Grenade
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This smoke grenade contains greenish ooze. When used, it releases a pungent green cloud, as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 cloudkill }{\fs20\cf0 
spell cast by a 9th-level Mage. The grenade is destroyed once used. The price listed is for a box of six grenades.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30 (per box); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb. (per grenade).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Deadeye Rifle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 deadeye rifle }{\fs20\cf0 is a Barrett Light Fifty sniper rifle with an enhancement bonus of +1 to +3. The stock is covered with elaborate runes, and the }{\i\fs20\cf0 deadeye rifle }{\fs20\cf0 is co
nsiderably lighter than a normal Barrett Light Fifty. The rifle\rquote s wielder suffers no penalties for 5 range increments, with each additional increment accruing only a \endash 1 penalty.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 42 (+1), 47 (+2), 52 (+3); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 20 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Demolition Hammer
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This weapon resembles a standard sledgehammer (use the warhammer statistics) with runes carved into its wooden handle. Besides its enhancement bonus (+1 to +3), the hammer has a }{\i\fs20\cf0 destroy }{\fs20\cf0 seed incan
tation bound into it that the wielder may activate once per day after a successful melee attack. The target must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 20) or take 10d6 points of damage. If the target is reduced to \endash 
10 hit points or less (or a construct, object, or undead is reduced to 0 hit points), it is destroyed as if disintegrated, leaving behind only a trace of fine dust.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30 (+1), 35 (+2), 40 (+3); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 8 lb. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Thunderclap Taser
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This taser releases a deafening blast of thunder when it strikes an opponent. It deals normal damage (1d4 electrical) plus an additional 2d6 points of sonic/concussion damage. The taser\rquote 
s battery is exhausted after a successful hit and must be replaced after each use.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Weapon (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 20; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Magic Weapon Special Abilities
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Most magic weapons have a +1 or better enhancement bonus. They can also have special abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at least a +1 enchantment bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Acidic: }{\fs20\cf0 Upon command, this weapon drips with acid. The acid does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus acid damage o
n a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bane: }{\fs20\cf0 A bane weapon excels at attacking a specific kind of creature (such as black dragons, ogres, or trolls). Against its designated fo
e, its effective enhancement bonus is +2 better than its normal enhancement bonus and deals +2d6 points of bonus damage against the foe.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Brilliant }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 A brilliant energy weapon has its significant portion transformed into light, although this does not modify the item\rquote 
s weight. It gives off light as a torch (20-foot radius). A brilliant energy weapon ignores nonliving matter. Equipment and enhancement Defense bonuses do not count against it because the weapon passe
s through armor. (Dexterity, deflection, dodge, natural armor, and other such bonuses still apply.) A brilliant energy weapon cannot harm undead, constructs, and objects. Ranged weapons cannot be enchanted with this ability.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Chaotic: }{\fs20\cf0 
This weapon is infused with the power of chaos. It deals +2d6 points of bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to law. It bestows one negative level on any creature with the law allegiance attempting to wield it. The negative level remain
s as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power 
upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dancing: }{\fs20\cf0 A dancing weapon can be loosed (requiring a move action) to attack on its own. It fights for 4 rounds using the base attack bonus of the one who loosed it and then drops. It never leaves the side of 
the one who loosed it (never straying more than 5 feet) and fights on even if that creature falls. The wielder who loosed it can grasp it while it is attacking on its own as a free action, but when so retrieved it can\rquote 
t dance (attack on its own) again for 4 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Defending }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 A defending weapon allows the wielder to transfer some or all of the weapon\rquote 
s enhancement bonus to his Defense as a special bonus that stacks with all others. As a free action, the wielder chooses how to allocate the weapon\rquote 
s enhancement bonus at the start of his turn before using the weapon, and the effect to Defense lasts until his next turn. This ability cannot be placed on ranged weapons.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Disruption }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 This type of weapons deals +2d6 points of damage to undead creatures.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Distance }{\fs20\cf0 (ranged weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 A weapon of distance doubles its range increment.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Energy Blast: }{\fs20\cf0 Energy blast weapons come i
n five types: acid blast, fiery blast, icy blast, electrical blast, and concussive blast. A burst weapon explodes with the appropriate energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion) upon scoring a successful critical hit. The energy does
 not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d10 points of bonus energy damage (of the requisite type) on a successful critical hit. If the weapon\rquote 
s critical multiplier is x3, add +2d10 points of bonus energy damage instead, and if the multiplier is x4, add +3d10 points of bonus energy damage. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy upon their ammunition. 
\par Any electrical device that is damaged by a shocking blast weapon has its electronics scrambled. A successful Repair check (DC 10 + the damage dealt) fixes the short. 
\par Subjects dealt a critical hit by a concussive blast weapon must make a Fortitude save (DC 14) or be deafened permanently.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flaming: }{\fs20\cf0 
Upon command, this weapon bursts into flame. The flame does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus fire damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Frost: }{\fs20\cf0 
Upon command, this weapon is engulfed in a bluish nimbus of cold energy. The cold does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus cold damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted be
stow the energy type upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ghost Touch }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 A ghost touch weapon deals damage normally against incorporeal creatures, regardless of its bonus. Further, it can be picked up and moved by incorporeal
 creatures at any time.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Holy: }{\fs20\cf0 This weapon is infused with holy power. It deals +2d6
\par points of bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to evil. It bestows one negative level on any creature with the evil allegiance att
empting to wield it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded.
 Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Keen }{\fs20\cf0 (slashing weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 This enchantment doubles the threat range of a weapon.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lawful: }{\fs20\cf0 This weapon is infused with the power of la
w. It deals +2d6 points of bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to chaos. It bestows one negative level on any creature with the chaos allegiance attempting to wield it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disap
pears when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Merciful: }{\fs20\cf0 
The weapon deals +1d6 points of damage, and all damage it deals is nonlethal damage. On command, the weapon suppresses this ability until commanded to resume it. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the merciful effect upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Mighty Cleaving }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 This weapon allows a wielder with the Cleave feat to make one additional cleave attempt in a round. Only one extra cleave attempt is allowed per round.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +2.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Returning }{\fs20\cf0 (thrown weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 A returning weapon returns to the thrower\rquote s hand at the beginning of his or her next turn.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shocking: }{\fs20\cf0 Upon command, this weapon crackles with lightning. The electricity does not harm the hands that hold the w
eapon. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus electricity damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.
\par Any electrical device damaged by a shocking weapon has its electronics scrambled. A successful Repair check (DC 10 + the damage dealt) fixes the short.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Speed: }{\fs20\cf0 A weapon of speed allows the wielder one single extra attack each round at his highest bonus.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +3.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Thundering: }{\fs20\cf0 Upon command, this weapon resonates with sonic energy. These weapons deal +1d6 points of bonus sonic/concussion damage on a successful hit. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the energy type upon their ammunition.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Unholy: }{\fs20\cf0 This weapon is infused with unholy power. 
It deals +2d6 points of bonus damage against any creature with an allegiance to good. It bestows one negative level on any creature with the good allegiance attempting to wield it. The negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears
 when the weapon is no longer wielded. This negative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded. Ranged weapons so enchanted bestow the power upon their ammunition.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +1.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Wounding }{\fs20\cf0 (melee weapons only)}{\b\fs20\cf0 : }{\fs20\cf0 
This weapon deals damage to a creature such that a wound it inflicts bleeds for 1 point of damage per round thereafter in addition to the normal damage the weapon deals. Multiple wounds from the weapon result in cumulative bl
eeding loss. The bleeding can only be stopped by a successful Treat Injury check (DC 15) or the application of any }{\i\fs20\cf0 cure }{\fs20\cf0 spell or other healing spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC Modifier: }{\fs20\cf0 +3.
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs40\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {STAFFS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Staffs are long shafts of wood, metal, or other materials that store a specific combination of spells.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Doppler Staff
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This staff is unusual in that it performs only one function\emdash  albeit a considerable one. Crafted from sandalwood carved with cloud patterns spiraling up its shaft, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 doppler staff }{\fs20\cf0 
requires that the user hold it above her head using both hands. The staff enables its user to cast a }{\i\fs20\cf0 control weather }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation without secondary casters. The staff also grants a +4 equipment bonus on all Knowledge (arcane lore) checks to successfully complete the incantation. Each attempted use costs one charge, even if the incantation fails.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Staff (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th (arcane); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 41; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Staff of Swarms
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This polished black staff often doubles as a walking cane, one end of which is capped with a ornat
e silver insect or arachnid. The staff has a number of uses, some identical to the corresponding divine spell. Each time the staff is used, it depletes a certain number of charges. A fully-charged staff holds 50 charges.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Shadowmoth plague }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 9 minutes); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Crawling carpet }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 9 minutes); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Rage of bees }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 9 minutes); uses 2 charges. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Staff (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th (divine); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 45; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Staff of the Urban Jungle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This staff is crafted from a long piece of rebar and topped with a variety of bangles, including doll heads, wires, and bolts. It requires that the user hold it forth in at least one hand.
\par The staff has a number of uses, some identical to the corresponding arcane spell. Each time the staff is used, it depletes a certain number of charges. A fully-charged staff holds 50 charges.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Arcane graffiti; }{\fs20\cf0 use no charges.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Change self; }{\fs20\cf0 uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Power device }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 90 minutes); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Burglar\rquote s buddy }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 9 minutes; Will save DC 14); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Nondetection }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 9 hours; Will save DC 15); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Synchronicity }{\fs20\cf0 (lasts 90 minutes; Will save DC 17); uses 2 charges.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Staff (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th (arcane); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 45; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Staff of Voltage
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
This staff is made from a solid piece of copper and etched with lightning bolts or electrical symbols resembling circuitry. It requires that the user hold it forth in at least one hand. A fully-charged staff holds 50 charges. The staff has a number of use
s, some identical to the corresponding arcane spell. Each time the staff is used, it depletes a certain number of charges.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Degauss }{\fs20\cf0 (by touch); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 (DC 15); uses 1 charge.
\par \bullet  }{\i\fs20\cf0 Lightning bolt }{\fs20\cf0 (9d6 points of electricity damage; Reflex save DC 15); uses 1 charge.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Staff (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th (arcane); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 40; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {POTIONS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
A potion is a single-use elixir that either duplicates a spell of 3rd level or lower or bestows some other temporary, spell-like effect upon the imbiber. Despite the name, potions can take many forms\emdash 
oils, pills, perfumes, and colognes represent a few variations. 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 L\rquote eau de Tigre
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This perfume or cologne grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Bluff and Sense Motive checks for 1 hour.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Potion (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 2nd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 20; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Potion of Mechanical Aptitude
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This potion makes the imbiber more proficient in understanding how technological devices work. He gains a +5 circumstance bonus on Computer Use and Repair checks for 1 hour.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Potion (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 6th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 16; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Potion of Vehicle Handling
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This bubbly potion temporarily sharpens the drinker\rquote s driving and piloting skills, granting a +5 circumstance bonus on Drive and Pilot checks for 1 hour.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Potion (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 6th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 16; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Potion of Wall Walk
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This viscid potion allows its imbiber to move across vertical surfaces or ceilings as easily as he can walk on the ground, and hold items and wield weapons normally while doing so.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Potion (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 6th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 16; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Vaporex (Potion of }{\b\i\fs20\cf0 Gaseous Form}{\b\fs20\cf0 )
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This potent elixir or capsule renders the imbiber gaseous, as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 gaseous form }{\fs20\cf0 spell. The effect lasts 5 minutes. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Potion (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 25; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {RINGS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 A ring is a circular metal band worn on the finger that conta
ins a spell-like effect (often an effect that persists as long as the ring is worn).
\par Sample rings include the following:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cat\rquote s Eye Ring
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This ring grants the wearer continuous low-light vision. In addition, once per day, the wearer may transform into a cat (as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 baleful polymorph }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation, but with no skill checks or additional components required). The wearer can turn back into her own form at any time. Either way, the transformation takes a move action to complete.
\par The wearer retains her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores in cat form, during which the ring takes the form of a handsome collar.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 12th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 37; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Decoder Ring
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This cheap-looking tin ring has a small dial adorned with letters of the alphabet. It grants its wearer a +10 equipment bonus on Decipher Script checks. Note that understanding does not necessarily imply spell use.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Algos
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This iron signet ring has a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Algos }{\fs20\cf0 (see Incantations) carved into its setting. Any time the wearer shakes hands with another living creature, he may activate the ring\rquote 
s power (as an attack action). The two parties shaking hands make opposed Will saves, although the ring\rquote s wearer gets to add his Charisma bonus to his save. Whoever has the lower result receives a \endash 
4 penalty to all attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws for the next 12 hours.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 36; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Cold Cocking
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This brass ring is shaped like a fist. The wearer can make an unarmed attack against a flat-footed opponent as if he had the Knockout Punch feat, even if he doesn\rquote t have the prerequisites.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Lockpicking
\par }{\fs20\cf0 On command, this ring releases several lockpicks, tongs, and tiny mechanical arms designed to fit into any Fine or Diminutive lock. The ring grants a +5 equipment bonus on Disable Device checks when picking or disabling mechani
cal or electronic locks.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Lyssa
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A ring is made of delicate silver threads forged in a pattern of thorny brambles with a single blood-red ruby set in the center. Anyone who puts on this cursed ring is suffers the effects of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sigil of Lyssa }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation for as long as the ring is worn (Will save, DC 28, negates). When the ring is removed, the victim must make a second Will save (DC 28) or suffer the effects for an additional 16 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 12th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 37; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Surveillance Detection
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This ring pulses dimly when electronic devices are monitoring the wearer. The ring can detect a working video camera, microphone, motion detector, or other
 sensor within 50 feet. By taking a full-round action, the wearer can locate the direction and distance to the device. It grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Search checks when trying to find concealed monitoring devices.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ring of Via Negativa
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This ring is set with a black pearl and allows its wearer to cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 via negativa }{\fs20\cf0 three times per day. Activating the ring is an attack action.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Ring (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {TATTOOS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Tattoos are single-use \'93items\'94 containing a spell-like effect that effects only the bearer.
\par Sample tattoos include the following:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Broken Arrow Tattoo
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The bearer of the tattoo, which usually looks like a broken arrow, gains damage reduction 10/+2 against ranged weapons that fire arrows, bolts, or bullets (as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 protection from arrows/bullets spell}{\fs20\cf0 
). The effect lasts for 50 minutes.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Tattoo (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th (arcane); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 20; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bullseye Tattoo
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The bearer of this bullseye tattoo gains a +20 insight bonus on her next single attack, as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 true strike }{\fs20\cf0 spell. The attack ignores any miss chance that applies to attacks against a concealed target.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Tattoo (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 1st (arcane); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 17; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Caduceus Tattoo
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This tattoo is usually shaped like a medical caduceus (a pair of serpents entwined around a staff). Activating the tattoo triggers a }{\i\fs20\cf0 caduceus }{\fs20\cf0 incantation that affects a single target: the bearer 
or another creature touched by the bearer. The effects are instantaneous, and once the tattoo is successfully created, no skill checks are required to activate the spell and there is no chance of the incantation failing.
\par The magic of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 caduceus tattoo }{\fs20\cf0 im
mediately ends any and all of the following adverse conditions affecting the target: temporary ability damage (but not permanent ability drain), blindness (including dazzled effects), confusion or insanity, daze, deafness, fatigue, exhaustion, feebleminde
dness, nausea, and poison. It also cures up to 150 points of damage. A single tattoo is enough to simultaneously achieve all these effects. The tattoo\rquote s magic also removes negative levels, but it does not restore permanently drained levels.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Tattoo (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par *}{\i\fs20\cf0 See the Incantation-Based FX Items sidebar.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tattoo of Spell Resistance
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This tattoo comes in various patterns, although tribal bands around the forearm or bicep are the most common. The bearer of this tattoo gains SR 21 for 9 minutes once the tattoo is activated.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Tattoo (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th (divine); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 24; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {WONDROUS ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 Wondrous items include anything that doesn\rquote t fall into the other groups, including jewelry, tools, 
books, apparel, and gadgets.
\par Sample wondrous items include the following:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Air Duct Infiltration Suit
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This is a pale blue pair of coveralls, like the kind worn by many janitors, that are favored by corporate spies. Four times per day, the wearer can use the suit to trigger a }{\i\fs20\cf0 gaseous form }{\fs20\cf0 
spell, allowing him to travel through a building\rquote s air ducts.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Animated Tools
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Two different sets of animated tools exist: the \'93mechanoset\'94 is designed for mechanical devices, while the \'93electroset\'94 is intended for electrical devices. When used like ordinary tools, }{\i\fs20\cf0 animated tools }{\fs20\cf0 
operate as a deluxe tool kit of the appropriate type (+2 equipment bonus on Repair checks), although they have the same size and weight as a basic kit.
\par On command, the tool animate and begin repairing a single damaged item of the appropriate type. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 animated tools }{\fs20\cf0 must be placed within 5 feet of the item to be repaired, and the user must remain within 30 feet for the durati
on of the repairs. When used in this manner, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 animated tools }{\fs20\cf0 act as though they have 10 ranks in the Repair skill (Repair +10). The }{\i\fs20\cf0 animated tools }{\fs20\cf0 
have a hardness of 10 and 10 hit points (total). They cannot be commanded to attack.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 34; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 12 lb. (electronic) or 22 lb.(mechanical).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 A}{\b\fs15\cf0 RCANOBOTS }{\b\fs20\cf0 Action Figure
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A}{\fs14\cf0 RCANOBOTS }{\fs20\cf0 action figures are durable, articulated, collectible robots powered by magic (though to most of the world, this is 
just marketing hyperbole). When powered by magic batteries (as opposed to normal batteries), they respond to the verbal commands of their owners. They come equipped with pop-out jet wings and miniature \'93death ray\'94
 guns that deal light sonic/ concussion damage (unless powered by normal batteries, in which case they fire harmless beams of light).
\par An A}{\fs14\cf0 RCANOBOT }{\fs20\cf0 filled with magic batteries operates for 24 hours, at which point it becomes an inanimate, normal toy.
\par Magic batteries can be obtained from the manufacturer\rquote s web site (purchase DC 36); most visitors to the web site (who don\rquote t recognize the arcanobots\rquote  true magical nature) assume that the high-cost \'93magic\'94
 batteries are a joke or publicity stunt.  Only those with a true understanding of Shadow are likely to pay the price to unlock the Arcanobots actual potential. An A}{\fs14\cf0 RCANOBOT }{\fs20\cf0 action figure has the following statistics:
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Arcanobot: }{\fs20\cf0 CR 1/4; Diminutive construct; HD 1/8d10; hp 1; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (good); Defense 17, touch 17, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +4 size); BAB +0; Grap \endash 16; Atk +0 melee (1d2\endash 
4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged touch (1d3 sonic/concussion, \'93death ray\'94); Full Atk +0 melee (1d2\endash 4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged touch (1d3 sonic/concussion, \'93death ray\'94); FS 1 
ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., construct immunities; AL creator or owner; SV Fort +0, Ref +3, Will \endash 5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 3, Dex 16, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 10th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 5 (does not include magic batteries); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Backpack of Holding
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This appears to be a common daypack, typically used by students and hikers. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 backpack of holding }{\fs20\cf0 opens into a nondimensional space: Its inside is larger than its outside dimensions. Regardless of wh
at is put into the backpack, it weighs a fixed amount. This weight, and the limits in weight and volume of the backpack\rquote s contents, depend on the backpack\rquote s type, as shown below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430
\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\pard\plain 
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Pack Type\cell }\pard \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 {Weight\cell }\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Weight Limit of Contents\cell Volume Limit of Contents\cell Purchase DC\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280
\clvertalb\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Light backpack\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 2 lb.\cell 250 lb.\cell 30 cu. ft.\cell 34\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Medium backpack\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 5 lb.\cell 500 lb.\cell 70 cu. ft.\cell 
36\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 Heavy backpack\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 8 lb.\cell 1,000 lb.\cell 150 cu. ft.\cell 38\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Jumbo backpack\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 20 lb.\cell 1,500 lb.\cell 
250 cu. ft.\cell 41\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1591\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1410 \cellx3840\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1440 \cellx5280\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1080 \cellx6360\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20\cf0 
If the backpack is overloaded, or if sharp objects pierce it (from inside or outside), the bag ruptures and is ruined. All contents are lost forever. If a }{\i\fs20\cf0 backpack of holding }{\fs20\cf0 
is turned inside out, its contents spill out, unharmed, but the backpack must be 
put right before it can be used again. If living creatures are placed within the backpack, they can survive for up to 10 minutes, after which time they suffocate. Retrieving a specific item from a }{\i\fs20\cf0 backpack of holding }{\fs20\cf0 
is a move action unless the bag contains more than an ordinary backpack would hold, in which case retrieving a specific item is a full-round action.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 Varies; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 Varies.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bad Hair Day Clip
\par }{\fs20\cf0 At first this seems like a cheap, plastic hair clip of the kind found in most convenience stores, but closer inspection reveals a tiny rune carved into the grip. This cursed item contains a version of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 afflict }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation seed that causes the person wearing it to suffer a \endash 4 morale penalty on all saving throws, Charisma checks, and Charisma-based skill checks. Removing the hair clip requires a }{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 
break enchantment }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 39 (often sold as a mundane hair clip, purchase DC 1); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Camera of Soul Stealing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This bulky, old-fashioned instant camera steals the life force of anyone caught in its field of view. Once per day, the user of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 camera of soul stealing }{\fs20\cf0 can take a picture (the camera does not need to be loaded wit
h film). Anyone within a 30-foot cone must succeed at a Will save (DC 20) or gain 1d4 negative levels. If a creature successfully makes the Will save, it is permanently immune to the effects of that }{\i\fs20\cf0 camera of soul stealing}{\fs20\cf0 .

\par The pictures taken by the }{\i\fs20\cf0 camera of soul stealing }{\fs20\cf0 
are black and white, and they possess a horrific, mind-bending quality such that people look gaunt and haunted, objects are twisted in a sinister way, and shadows seem darker and menacing.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 10th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 37; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Demonic Biker\rquote s Jacket
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This worn and faded leather jacket is covered with spikes, rivets, and metal chains. A large skull shrouded in flame 
adorns the back. The jacket makes the wearer look dangerous and menacing, granting a +4 equipment bonus on Intimidate checks. Once per day, the wearer\rquote 
s hands can transform into gnarled talons for up to 10 rounds. The transformation allows the jacket\rquote s wea
rer to make unarmed strikes without provoking attacks of opportunity. The wearer deals 1d6 points of lethal damage (plus Strength modifier, if any) with each successful unarmed strike.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 4 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Driving Ace Gloves
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These snug, leather racing gloves provide a +5 equipment bonus on all Drive checks while operating a land vehicle (no benefit for boats, planes, or helicopters). Both gloves must be worn for the magic to be effective.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eagle Eye Sunglasses
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These stylish sunglasses grant superior vision as well as protecting the wearer\rquote s eyes from bright lights and UV rays. The sunglasses grant a +5 equipment bonus on Spot checks made in brightly lit locations.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Eldritch Cell Phone
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This cell phone has an unusually long and odd-shaped antenna but is otherwise nondescript. It has the ability to connect t
o any other phone regardless of weather conditions or distance. The connection has a slight warble to it, but is otherwise free of static and other interference. If the person being contacted doesn\rquote t have a phone, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
eldritch cell phone }{\fs20\cf0 automatically dials the phone nearest to the individual (even though the contact might be unable to reach it). Furthermore, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 eldritch cell phone }{\fs20\cf0 
magically encrypts the conversation so that anyone who taps into the conversation (using a cellular interceptor or other hardware) hears only gibberish.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 eldritch cell phone }{\fs20\cf0 has a built-in caller ID defeater and cannot be traced by mundane technology.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fabric of Style
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This bolt of fine, silky fabric is wrapped around a person\rquote s body. On command, }{\i\fs20\cf0 fabric of style }{\fs20\cf0 
turns into a any sort of outfit of excellent quality, but does not include accessories like jewelry, watches, and so forth. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fabric of style }{\fs20\cf0 also grants a +2 equipment bonus on Charisma checks and 
Charisma-based skill checks while worn. The style of outfit can be changed, but the }{\i\fs20\cf0 fabric of style }{\fs20\cf0 must be removed and donned again, requiring a full-round action. If any part of the outfit is removed, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
fabric of style }{\fs20\cf0 turns back into the bolt of cloth.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 36; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 3 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fuel Tablets
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These amber-colored tablets come in bottles of ten. Each }{\i\fs20\cf0 fuel tablet }{\fs20\cf0 transforms into liquid or gaseous fuel (gasoline, diesel, kerosine, jet fuel, or propane) whe
n dropped into the fuel tank of a vehicle or other machine. The fuel completely fills the tank, but is otherwise like regular fuel and is destroyed once used.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 29 (per bottle); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Glasses of Minute Seeing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These normal looking glasses have specially crafted lenses. When worn, they grant the wearer a +5 equipment bonus on Search checks to locate or identify features such as tiny seams, marks, cracks, or imperfections.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Haz-Mat Gloves
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These elbow-length, optic yellow gloves are made of coarse, stiff material. The wearer gains acid, cold, and fire resistance 10 so long as both gloves are worn.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Hidden Holster
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This concealed carry holster can hold any handgun and grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Sleight of Hand checks to conceal the weapon. The bonus applies to physical searches as well as casual inspection.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 0.5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Instant Ice Box
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This item looks like an ordinary 1-foot-wide, 3-foot-long, and 1.5-foot-deep picnic cooler with a 2-inch-thick plastic cover
. The only apparent difference are the three buttons on the hasp. When the lid is closed and one or more of the buttons are pressed, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 instant ice box }{\fs20\cf0 
will magically cool any materials placed inside for as long as the lid remains closed. If the lid is opened, the effect ends. The cooler has a total of 50 charges that can be spent in three different ways.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Chill (uses 1 charge): }{\fs20\cf0 If any one of the buttons is pressed, the box chills all the contents to a temperature of 40\'b0F (4.5\'b0C), as though placed in a domestic refrigerator.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Preserve (uses 2 charges): }{\fs20\cf0 If any two of the buttons are pressed, the box chills all the contents to a temperature of 0\'b0F (\endash 18\'b0C), as though placed in a domestic freezer.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Freeze (uses 3 charges): }{\fs20\cf0 If all three buttons are pressed, the box chills all the contents to a temperature of \endash 27\'b0F (\endash 32.75\'b0C), about the temperature used for storing freeze-dried medical supplies.
\par An }{\i\fs20\cf0 instant ice box }{\fs20\cf0 drained of all charges functions as an ordinary cooler.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Invisifinder Goggles
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These military-grade night vision goggles are carved with runes and other occult symbols. In addition to the benefits of regular night-vision goggles, they also allow the wearer to }{\i\fs20\cf0 see invisibility }{\fs20\cf0 as the spell.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 3 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lucky Deck
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This ordinary looking deck of playing cards usually features a stylized genie or similar image on the backs of its cards, The }{\i\fs20\cf0 lucky deck }{\fs20\cf0 
grants its owner a +5 luck bonus on Gamble checks involving card games (such as poker or single-deck blackjack). To become the owner, a person must keep the deck on his or her person for 24 continuous hours.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lucky Dice
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These ordinary looking, casino-grade dice grant a +5 luck bonus on Gamble checks when used for any dice games (such as craps). Because they work for anyone who uses them, the user typically palms them between
 throws to avoid suspicion (requiring a separate Sleight of Hand check).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Lucky Suit
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A polyester suit consisting of a garish plaid jacket and lime green pants, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 lucky suit }{\fs20\cf0 protects the wearer from ranged attacks as though he had total concealment (50% miss chance). The suit doesn\rquote 
t actually conceal or displace the wearer, but helps the wearer avoid range attacks that might normally hit. The concealment doesn\rquote t apply to melee attacks. The wearer also gains a +2 luck bonus on Reflex saves.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 38; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 3 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Magic Billiard-Ball
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, this otherwise normal looking toy }{\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Billiard-ball }{\fs20\cf0 can be used to cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 augury }{\fs20\cf0 
(as by a 5th-level Acolyte). To activate this ability, the user must state the question out loud and shake the }{\i\fs20\cf0 Magic Billiard-ball}{\fs20\cf0 . It provides no answers whatsoever if used more than once in a 24-hour period.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Medicine Bundle
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This small leather pouch, filled with herbs and crystals, is adorned with small beads and feathers. While worn, it provides a +4 resistance bonus on Fortitude saves. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 medicine bundle }{\fs20\cf0 becomes useless once the
 wearer fails to make a save. Only one }{\i\fs20\cf0 medicine bundle }{\fs20\cf0 can be worn at a time for any benefit \emdash wearing multiple }{\i\fs20\cf0 medicine bundles }{\fs20\cf0 negates the bonus.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 1st; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Muse Statuette
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This six-inch-tall
 statuette of a beautiful woman animates and provides suggestions to the controller on ways to improve whatever art form they are working on (provided the user knows the appropriate verbal command). The statue grants a +5 circumstance bonus on any Craft (
visual art or writing) skill check. The statue has a hardness of 5 and 5 hit points. If the }{\i\fs20\cf0 muse statuette }{\fs20\cf0 is destroyed, its owner takes a \endash 10 penalty on Craft (visual art) and Craft (writing) checks for the next year. A }
{\i\fs20\cf0 remove curse }{\fs20\cf0 spell negates this penalty.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Parka of Warmth
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This winter parka grants cold resistance 10 to the wearer. Unless the wearer takes actual damage, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 parka of warmth }{\fs20\cf0 keeps him at a constant comfortable te
mperature. This ability overlaps (does not stack) with any other cold resistance the wearer might have.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 3 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Pen of Invisible Ink
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This pen looks like an old-fashion
ed calligraphy stylus, but contains its own magical supply of black ink. Any letter printed with this pen appears normal until the user speaks a name and blows upon the paper. Once spoken, the ink fades and can only be viewed by the person who was stated 
at the time of writing. If the name is not specific, then anyone with the same name will be able to read the message as normal. 
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 read magic }{\fs20\cf0 spell will indicate that invisible ink has been used, but will not reveal the message. It is possible to create a n
onmagical chemical compound (Craft [chemical] check, DC 25) that, when spread over the surface of the paper, reveals the message written in }{\i\fs20\cf0 invisible ink}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 pen of invisible ink }{\fs20\cf0 holds enough ink for 50 messages.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 29; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Quick-Draw Holster
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Any handgun placed in this hip holster fits perfectly. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 quick-draw holster }{\fs20\cf0 allows its wearer to draw or holster the weapon as a free action (as though the wearer had the Quick Draw feat).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Replay Mirror
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This 3-foot-by-3-foot mirror has an attractive, modern frame. Uttering a command word causes the mirror to \'93record\'94 anything within its field of view, exactly like a video recor
der, for 1 hour. One can also speak a command word instructing the mirror to begin recording anywhere up to 1 hour in the future. On command, the mirror can \'93replay\'94 the images that it has captured (visual only, no audio).
\par The viewer can move back and fort
h to change viewing angles, just like looking in a regular mirror. The mirror recording can move in reverse, pause, and fast forward, just like a normal, high-quality VCR. The mirror can remember up to 3 hours of recordings, \'93erasing\'94
 the oldest images first.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 20 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Rod of Technology
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This 18-inch-long metal rod is covered in wires and diodes, and topped with a large crystal. Six switches are built into its length. Each switch activates a special power of the rod.
\par The first button turns the rod into a portable satellite telephone.
\par The second button transforms the rod into a metal detector.
\par The third switch turns the rod into a lock release gun.
\par The fourth button transforms the rod into a GPS receiver.
\par The fifth switch causes the rod\rquote s crystal tip to shed bright light equivalent to a }{\i\fs20\cf0 light }{\fs20\cf0 spell.
\par The sixth button delivers an electrical pulse to any device touched by the rod\rquote s crystal tip, duplicating the effects of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 power device }{\fs20\cf0 or }{\i\fs20\cf0 degauss }{\fs20\cf0 spell (at the wielder\rquote s discretion).

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 1st; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 29; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 6 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shadow Detector
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 Shadow detector }{\fs20\cf0 looks like a normal hand-held meta
l detector, but is inscribed with a variety of occult runes. When waved over a living creature within 5 feet, it can determine whether it is a creature of Shadow (which includes Shadowkind characters). The }{\i\fs20\cf0 Shadow detector }{\fs20\cf0 
works in the same way as a }{\i\fs20\cf0 detect magical aura, }{\fs20\cf0 but only detects creatures of Shadow.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 31; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Spectacles of Speed Reading
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These octagonal-framed spectacles resemble ordinary reading glasses, but they have been enchanted with a version of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 bibliolalia }{\fs20\cf0 
incantation. While wearing these glasses, a character increases her reading speed to 10 pages per minute (or reduces required reading time to 20% of the listed time) and, for the 30 minutes following the completion of a b
ook, has perfect recall of everything she read. After that, she must make a Research check (DC = one-fifth of the book\rquote s page count) to remember more than general information.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 11th*; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 39; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Stamps of Delivery
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Normally found in books of six, }{\i\fs20\cf0 stamps of delivery }{\fs20\cf0 are large, ornate postage stamps bearing the image of the Greek god Hermes. A letter or package weighing no more than 5 pounds that bears a }{\i\fs20\cf0 
stamp of delivery }{\fs20\cf0 will instantly transport to the address listed on the label (arriving at the appropriate mail slot, box, or in front of the main door if there isn\rquote t one). The }{\i\fs20\cf0 stamp of delivery }{\fs20\cf0 
can be placed on any object (within the target weight), as long as it has the target address is labeled somewhere on its surface.
\par If successfully delivered, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 stamp of delivery }{\fs20\cf0 
bears an illegible but visible postmark and cannot be used again. If the address is incorrect but actually exists, the package will deliver itself to that location. If the address labeled on the package does not exist, the package will not transport and t
he }{\i\fs20\cf0 stamp of delivery }{\fs20\cf0 will be rendered useless.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32 (per book); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Tempus Fugit Watch
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 tempus fugit watch }{\fs20\cf0 is an antique gold pocket watch with numerous hands that do not seem to conform t
o the standard array of hours, minutes, and seconds. It uses long-forgotten and extremely powerful magic to stop time for a short while while enabling its wearer to move about freely. These watches are only found, as the secret of their manufacture has be
en lost.
\par Once per day, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 tempus fugit watch }{\fs20\cf0 
can make time cease to flow for everyone but the wearer. In reality, the wearer speeds up so greatly that all other creatures seem frozen, though they are moving at their regular speed. The wearer is free to act
 for 1d4+1 rounds of apparent time. While the time stop is in effect, other creatures are invulnerable to the wearer\rquote 
s attacks and spells. A spell that affects an area and has a duration longer than the remaining duration of the time stop (such as cloudkil
l) have their normal effects on other creatures once the time-stopping effect ends. Normal and magical fire, cold, gas, and the like can still harm the wearer during the time stop. The wearer cannot move or harm items held, carried, or worn by a creature 
stuck in normal time, but the wearer can affect any item that is not in another creature\rquote s possession. The wearer is not detectable while the effect lasts.
\par There is a 1% chance per use that the watch ceases to function after its last use. Once it ceases to function, the watch cannot be repaired.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 10th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 37; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Token of Friendship
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Tokens of friendship }{\fs20\cf0 are tiny silver charms in various shapes strung on silver necklaces or bracelets. Groups of up to 10 charms (all of the same design) are enchanted at the same time with a version of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
satellite tracking }{\fs20\cf0 incantation. Anyone wearing one of these charms can, as a move equiva
lent action, determine the exact location of any other single person wearing another of the matched charms. As per the incantation, the charms provide only GPS coordinates.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 13th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 41; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Translator\rquote s Earpiece
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This tiny molded earpiece (which requires a succcessful Spot check, DC 20, to notice) lets the wearer speak and understand the language of any intelligent creature, whether it is a racial tongue or regional dialect (as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
tongues }{\fs20\cf0 spell, albeit continuously). It does not allow the wearer to understand or transcribe written foreign languages.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trench Coat of Useful Items
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This appears to be an unremarkable black tren
ch coat, but a character who dons it notes that it is adorned with small cloth patches in various shapes. Only the wearer of trench coat can see these patches, recognize them for what items they become, and detach them. One patch can be detached each roun
d. Detaching a patch causes it to become an actual item, as indicated below. A newly created }{\i\fs20\cf0 trench coat of useful items }{\fs20\cf0 always has two each of the following patches:
\par \bullet  Flashlight, standard
\par \bullet  Knife
\par \bullet  Multipurpose tool
\par \bullet  Duct tape
\par \bullet  150-foot-long rope
\par \bullet  Boltcutter
\par In addition, the trench coat has 2d6+4 other items, determined by rolling on the table below.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 
\cellx4920\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 d%\cell Result\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 01\endash 08\cell Bundle of cash (increase Wealth bonus by +2)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 09\endash 15\cell 
Loaded flare gun (with 3 extra rounds)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
\fs20\cf0 16\endash 22\cell Gas mask (with an extra filter canister)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 23\endash 30\cell Night vision goggles\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 31\endash 44\cell 24-foot-long metal ladder\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 45\endash 51\cell Diamondback X-20 mountain bike\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 52\endash 59\cell Steel handcuffs\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 60\endash 68\cell 
Portable generator (with full tank of gas)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 69\endash 75\cell Fire exitinguisher\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920
\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 76\endash 83\cell Small bag of jewels (increase Wealth bonus by +4)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 84\endash 90\cell Cell phone (connects to any cellular network and works for 8 hours before becoming useless)\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 91\endash 96\cell First aid kit\cell 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 97\endash 00\cell Roll twice more, ignoring results of 97\endash 00\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx608\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4312 \cellx4920\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Umbrella of Feather Falling
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If this umbrella is open, the user can jump from any height and drift to the ground as though affected by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 feather fall }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. The umbrella does not function if it is not open, although the user can attempt to do so while falli
ng by succeeding at a Dexterity check (DC 10), taking no damage if successful. Failure indicates that the umbrella does not open in time, and the user takes the full damage from the fall.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 1st; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Universal ID
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This blank piece of plastic is the size of a credit card and can transform into any form of ID on command, including photo, holographic imprints, and watermarks (as per the }{\i\fs20\cf0 magic ID }{\fs20\cf0 
spell). It does not create a magnetic strip or other form of nonvisual information. The card must be held by the user for the image to be changed.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 1st; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 29; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Video Camera of True Seeing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This video camera is covered in runes and sigils. In addition to operating like a normal video camera, it is also capable of videotaping things unseen by normal eyes, as if through the }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 
spell. The camera records invisible beings as well as the actual form of Shadow creatures with perfect clarity.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 37; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 2 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Watch of Speed
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This modern looking wristwatch improves the wearer\rquote s concept of time, granting a +2 equipment bonus on initiative checks. This bonus stacks with other abilities that improve initiative, such as the Improved Initiative feat.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 33; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ARTIFACTS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 
Artifacts are wondrous items that are especially powerful, particularly difficult to craft, or unique. They are ancient relics whose origins are shrouded in mystery. Even the most powerful artificers cannot create artifacts, for they are items whose power
 has grown through time. They are true objects of legend and, in many cases, instigators or catalysts of world change. 
\par }{\cf0 
\par Activating an Artifact
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Unless otherwise noted, activating an artifact takes an attack action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. Artifacts are activated by command word or use-activated.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Destroying an Artifact
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Artifacts are unnaturally resilient and can only be destroyed by extraordinary means. The secret to destroying an artifact is often as well-guarded and mysterious as the ar
tifact itself, requiring a successful Research check (DC 25) to uncover.
\par Destroying the artifact is even more arduous\emdash and frequently the basis for an entire adventure.
\par To illustrate the difficulty of destroying an artifact, several means of destruction are presented below (and the GM is encouraged to devise other means).
\par \bullet  Locate and retrieve an ancient Babylonian scroll with a }{\i\fs20\cf0 transform }{\fs20\cf0 seed incantation, which will turn the artifact into something that can be destroyed by conventional means.
\par \bullet  Use a }{\i\fs20\cf0 subjugate outsider }{\fs20\cf0 incantation to summon a powerful demon, then command it to take the artifact and plunge it into }{\fs20\cf6 a pit }{\fs20\cf0 of Hell.
\par \bullet  Find the living descendant of an ancient Mongol dynasty whose blood, when spilled on the artifact, will cause it to dissolve.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\bullet  Pl
ace the artifact on an altar in a Paris cathedral, then splash it with holy water from the Aspergillum of Saint Javier, which was stolen from the cathedral in the 15th century and was last seen in a private art collection in Singapore.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 \bullet  Persuade or trick 
a red dragon emperor or empress into devouring the artifact, which will be consumed in the fires of its stomach.
\par \bullet  Locate an Egyptian brazier with the power to summon an efreeti noble, then use a wish to command the efreeti to smash the artifact with its great iron falchion.
\par }{\cf6 
\par }{\cf0 Artifact Purchase DCs
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Artifacts cannot generally be purchased on the open market, although a 
careless vendors might sell one inadvertantly (by failing to realize its true nature or power). Since artifacts are often unique items, one must strike a deal with the current owner (who usually demands an exorbitant price). Players may not equip their ch
aracters with artifacts without their GM\rquote s permission.
\par For the purposes of reward values, an artifact\rquote s purchase DC is 30 + its FX modifier. The FX modifier depends on the item\rquote s nature, as shown below:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 Artifact Effects\cell }\pard 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0 {\cf0 FX Modifier\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Each single-use effect\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Each continuous effect, permanent effect, or +3 enhancement bonus\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +10
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Each effect with a limited number of uses per day, or each +2 enhancement bonus\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +7\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
Each effect with a limited number of charges, or each +1 enhancement bonus\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth3708 \cellx3600\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth1388 \cellx4988\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs22\cf0 
\par }{\cf0 Sample Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Examples of artifacts include the following.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 Caesar\rquote s Shield
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This is the shield that Julius Caesar carried with him from Britain to Egypt and back to Rome. The shield is said to have disappeared at roughly the same time Caesar was slain by ambitious senato
rs. It has reportedly surfaced from time to time, appearing on auction blocks and being alternately decried as a forgery and contested in bidding wars more savage than any of Caesar\rquote s campaigns.
\par This }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 large shield}{\fs20\cf0 , emblazoned with the image of a roaring lion\rquote 
s head, allows the bearer to wield any weapon as though he was proficient in its use. It also grants whatever weapon its bearer uses a +3 enhancement bonus. The bearer has damage reduction 10/+1 while grasping }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caesar\rquote s shield }{
\fs20\cf0 as well.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 70; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 15 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Crescent of the Moon
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Legend says that the stone blade of this ancient scythe is carved from rock that came from the moon. Given the age of the specimen, this seems patently impossible, but its previous owners have been unwilling to submit the }{\i\fs20\cf0 
crescent }{\fs20\cf0 to scientific examination. Experts estimate that it was made during the early iron age, though why one would make a stone blade when metal ones were widely available, no one can say. The }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent }{\fs20\cf0 has a l
ong and colorful history as an object both desired and feared by pagan sects.
\par This }{\i\fs20\cf0 +3 scythe}{\fs20\cf0 , with images of the lunar cycle and baying wolves carved into its shaft, also has the quality of lycanthrope bane (gaining an additional +2 enhancement bonus and d
ealing an additional +2d6 points of damage to werewolves, wererats, and other lycanthropes).
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent of the moon }{\fs20\cf0 has other enchantments that activate only during specific phases of the lunar cycle. The following effects are active only from dusk to dawn on the days in question:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 New Moon: }{\fs20\cf0 On the three nights of the new moon, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent }{\fs20\cf0 grants its wielder the ability to recognize lycanthropes by sight regardless of their current form\emdash humanoid, hybrid, or animal.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Waxing: }{\fs20\cf0 During the period of time between new and full moon, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent }{\fs20\cf0 grants its wielder darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Full Moon: }{\fs20\cf0 On the three nights of the full moon, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent }{\fs20\cf0 grants its wielder the ability to throw himself into a violent rage once per night. This rage lasts 1d4
+3 rounds, and the wielder cannot choose to end it prematurely. Beginning a rage is a free action. In the rage, the wielder temporarily gains +4 Strength, +4 Constitution, and a +2 morale bonus on Will saves, but suffers a \endash 
2 penalty to Defense. The increased Constitution increases the wielder\rquote 
s hit points by 2 per level, but these hit points go away at the end of the rage when the Constitution score drops back to normal. (These extra hit points are not lost first the way temporary hit points are.) While ra
ging, the wielder can take no action other than attacking; if there are no foes to attack, he must forfeit all actions until the rage has passed\emdash he does not have to attack his friends. At the end of the rage, the wielder is fatigued (\endash 
2 to Strength, \endash 2 to Dexterity, can\rquote t charge or run) for 1d4+3 rounds. The wielder may only fly into a rage during his action, not in response to somebody else\rquote s action.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Waning: }{\fs20\cf0 During the period of time between full and new moon, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 crescent }{\fs20\cf0 grants its wielder the scent special quality.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 68; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 12 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Cup of Curing
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The origins of this gold chalice, crafted in intricate baroque patters and encrusted with dozens of jewels, are as mysterious as its powers. At various times in history, the cup has an object of worship for nearly every major religion\emdash 
indeed, there is evidence that its possession has precipitated innumerable wars.
\par Any liquid drunk from the cup takes on amazing curative powers. One swallow cures all diseases, blindness, deafness, hit point damage, and all temporary ability damage. It also neutralizes poisons in the drinker\rquote s system (so that no additio
nal damage or effects are suffered) and cures mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain.
\par A second swallow in the same sitting removes negative levels and restores permanently drained levels and ability scores.
\par A third swallow grants the drinker a +5 bonus on saving throws, attack rolls, and skill checks for one day. 
\par A fourth swallow causes the drinker to glow with a brilliant white light. One round later, as the light grows brighter, anyone looking at the person must succeed at a Fortitude s
ave (DC 25) or be struck blind for 2d6 minutes. On the next round, the drinker\rquote s body is completely consumed as the light flares\emdash 
anyone still watching must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 35) or be struck permanently blind. The following round the light ceases, and the }{\i\fs20\cf0 cup of curing }{\fs20\cf0 
disappears along with any trace of the greedy drinker. No spell can divine where the cup goes or when it will surface again. 
\par A character may drink from the cup on up to five different occasions. The sixth time, he immediately suffers consequences identical to drinking four times in a sitting.
\par Drinking from the cup is a move action that provokes attacks of opportunity.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 51; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 3 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dagger of Eternal Unrest
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The curved, bla
ck blade of this dagger leads into a hilt inlaid with human bones ending in a large black onyx gem. It is a relic formerly used by a cult that performed ritual sacrifices then brought their victims back from the grave as the walking undead. The dagger has
 a +3 enhancement bonus plus a secondary enchantment.
\par Three times per day, if the dagger is used in a successful coup de grace, the wielder may choose to have the blade cast }{\i\fs20\cf0 animate dead }{\fs20\cf0 on the victim. This creates a zombie under the control of the dagger\rquote s
 wielder. If the dagger changes hands, so too does the zombie\rquote s loyalty.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 47; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 1 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Houdini\rquote s Watch Fob
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This short length of gold chain with a belt clip on one end and a wooden fetish at the othe
r once belonged to the famed stage magician Harry Houdini. The fetish is a crude, tiny carving of a human figure with strange glyphs gouged into its chest and back. Houdini, it is said, was never seen without this fob hooked to his belt\emdash 
never, that is, except for the night that he died.
\par In the intervening years, the fob has passed through the hands of several collectors, all of whom swear that they will give the artifact a permanent home. Each owner, though, has fallen on hard times, passed away, or come to
 a particularly valid reason to sell the item less than a year after taking possession. The fob, it seems, does not want to stay in one place.
\par Anyone wearing the fob gains a +3 luck bonus on Reflex saves, as well as a +6 luck bonus on Balance, Bluff, Climb, Disguise, Escape Artist, Move Silently, and Tumble checks. Furthermore, the fob grants the wearer the Improved Initiative feat.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 50; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Index of Alexandria
\par }{\fs20\cf0 There are four copies of this large, leather-bound, illuminated tome believed to exist (although rumors perpetually circulate about more). They represent the life\rquote 
s work of a monk identified only as Ranald de St. Augustine (exactly which site named for St. Augustine remains unclear). They are Latin translations of a series of Greek scrolls attributed to Aristarchus of Samothrace \emdash 
the last known librarian of the Great Library of Alexandria \emdash that purport to be a complete index to the 40,000 volumes housed in that legendary temple to knowledge.
\par Reading the }{\i\fs20\cf0 Index }{\fs20\cf0 takes 40 days (which do not have to occur in a row). At the end of each day, the reader must make a Decipher Script check (DC 30) or that day\rquote s effort is lost.
\par Upon completing the book, the reader gains +4 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, and a +3 insight bonus on all Knowledge (arcane lore, art, civics, earth and life sciences, history, physical sciences, tactics, or theology and philosophy) checks.
\par After completely reading the book, a person may return to the volume to try to glean specific infor
mation or insight on matters of ancient history, languages and translation, various sciences, theology, and philosophy. (It is up to the GM to decide whether or not a specific subject falls into one or more of these categories.) This requires 2d6 hours an
d a successful Research check (DC 25).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 60; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 30 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Sphere of Annihilation
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 sphere of annihilation }{\fs20\cf0 is a globe of absolute blackness, a ball of nothingness 2 feet in diameter. The sphere is actuall
y a hole in the continuity of the universe. Any matter that comes in contact with a sphere is instantly sucked into the void, gone, and utterly destroyed.
\par There are several known }{\i\fs20\cf0 spheres of annihilation}{\fs20\cf0 . Most belong to government agencies, some to universi
ties or private research groups, and a few to private collectors. It is even feared that one or two have fallen into the hands of radical terrorist groups.
\par The origin of the spheres is uncertain, but the most common rumor is that they are all small pieces of a single original }{\i\fs20\cf0 globe of annihilation}{\fs20\cf0 
. It is said that the globe is over 200 feet in diameter and that the U.S. government has it secreted away in an underground bunker in the Nevada desert.
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 sphere of annihilation }{\fs20\cf0 is static, resting in some spot as 
if it were a normal hole. It can be caused to move, however, by mental effort. The brain waves of the individual concentrating on moving it bend spatial fabrics, causing the hole to slide. The range of this control is 40 feet initially, then 40 feet + 10 
feet per character level once control is established. Control is based on the character\rquote 
s Intelligence and level. (The higher his level, the greater his mental discipline.) The character adds his Intelligence bonus and character level and then applies the total to a 1d20 roll. To control the sphere, the DC is 30. The sphere\rquote 
s speed is 10 feet per round + 1 foot for every point by which the control check result exceeds 30.
\par If two or more characters vie for control of a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sphere of annihilation}{\fs20\cf0 , the rolls are opposed. If none is successful, the sphere slips toward the one who rolled lowest.
\par Should a }{\i\fs20\cf0 teleport }{\fs20\cf0 incantation be cast upon a }{\i\fs20\cf0 sphere of annihilation}{\fs20\cf0 , there is a 50% chance (a 01\endash 50 result on d%) that the spell destroys it, a 34% chance (51\endash 
85) that the spell does nothing, and a 15% chance (86\endash 100) that a gap is torn in the spatial fabric, resulting in a tremendous explosion. Everything within a 60-foot radius takes 2d6x10 points of damage. }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 
has no effect on the sphere, although a }{\i\fs20\cf0 greater dispel magic }{\fs20\cf0 incantation has a chance of succeeding (treat the sphere as a spell effect created by a 20th-level spellcaster for this purpose).
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 40; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Staff of Sorcerous Might
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A long w
ooden staff, shod in iron and inscribed with sigils and runes of all types, this potent artifact had been sitting in a display case in the British National Museum for decades. No one knows exactly what caused it to release a lightning bolt, shattering the
 
case along with any illusions that it was just an ordinary decorative walking stick. Some people say it belonged to Merlin, Circe, or any one of a dozen other literary or historical sorcerers. Others say that it is just another magical piece of detritus t
hat has come through Shadow in recent years. No one truly knows whether it is one of a kind, or if there are other staffs like it waiting to be found. In any case, it is one of the most powerful items that any spellcaster could possess.
\par The }{\i\fs20\cf0 staff of sorcerous might }{\fs20\cf0 gives the wielder spell resistance 23. It has several other spell powers, as well. Some the staff\rquote s powers drain charges, while others don\rquote t. A fully-charged }{\i\fs20\cf0 
staff of sorcerous might }{\fs20\cf0 has 50 charges. The following powers do not drain charges:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Detect magical aura 
\par Mage armor
\par Hold portal 
\par Mage hand
\par Light
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The following powers drain 1 charge per usage:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Dimension door
\par Dispel magic
\par Electromagnetic pulse }{\fs20\cf0 (Will save DC 15)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Fireball }{\fs20\cf0 (10d6 points of damage, Reflex save DC 15)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Ice storm
\par Invisibility
\par Knock
\par Lightning bolt }{\fs20\cf0 (10d6 points of damage, Reflex save DC 15)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Summon vivilor IV
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These powers drain 2 charges per usage:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Cone of cold }{\fs20\cf0 (10d6 points of cold damage, Reflex save DC 17)
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Passwall
\par Telekinesis }{\fs20\cf0 (400 pounds maximum additional weight)
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 staff of sorcerous might }{\fs20\cf0 has the following additional spell-like abilities:
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Absorb: }{\fs20\cf0 As an readied action, the staff\rquote s wielder can draw spells or spell-like abilities into the staff. The magic absorbed must be a single-target spell or a ray directed either 
at the character possessing the staff or her gear. The staff then nullifies the spell\rquote 
s effect and stores its potential, converting spell levels into charges. The GM should keep a running total of the number of charges currently in the staff. If the staff 
absorbs spell levels beyond its charge limit (50), it explodes as if a retributive strike had been made (see below). Note that the wielder has no idea how many spell levels are cast at her\emdash the staff does not communicate this knowledge.
\par Absorbing spells is risky, but absorption is the only way this staff can be recharged.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Retributive Strike: }{\fs20\cf0 The }{\i\fs20\cf0 staff of sorcerous might }{\fs20\cf0 can be broken for a retributive strike. Such an act must be purposeful and declared by the wielder. All charges in the staff are released in
 a 30-foot spread. All within 10 feet of the broken staff take points of damage equal to 8 times the number of charges in the staff, those between 11 feet and 20 feet away take points equal to 6 times the number of charges, and those 21 feet to 30 feet di
stant take 4 times the number of charges.
\par A successful Reflex save (DC 17) reduce damage by half. The character breaking the staff is destroyed in the explosion.
\par Only the }{\i\fs20\cf0 staff of sorcerous might }{\fs20\cf0 is capable of a retributive strike\emdash this is not an act that can be performed with any other staff, wand, or magic item.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 95; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talisman of Pure Good
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A divine spellcaster with an allegiance to good who possesses this item can ca
use a flaming crack to open at the feet of a divine spellcaster with an allegiance to evil who is up to 100 feet away. The intended victim is swallowed up forever and sent hurtling to the center of the earth. The wielder of the talisman must have an alleg
iance to good, and if he is not exceptionally pure in thought and deed (GM\rquote 
s discretion), the evil character gains a Reflex saving throw (DC 19) to leap away from the crack. Obviously, the target must be standing on solid ground for this item to function. (
In the air, in a highrise building, or on a boat or airplane are all places of safety against this otherwise potent item.)
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 talisman of pure good }{\fs20\cf0 has 7 charges. If a divine spellcaster without an allegiance to good touches one of these medallions, he take
s 6d6 points of damage. If a divine spellcaster with an allegiance to evil touches one, he takes 8d6 points of damage.
\par All other characters are unaffected by this item.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Talisman of Ultimate Evil
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
A divine spellcaster with an allegiance to evil who possesses this item can cause a flaming crack to open at the feet of a divine spellcaster with an allegiance to good who is up to 100 feet away. The intended victim is swallowed up forever and sen
t hurtling to the center of the earth. The wielder of the talisman must have an allegiance to evil, and if he is not exceptionally foul and perverse (GM\rquote 
s discretion), the good character gains a Reflex saving throw (DC 19) to leap away from the crack. Obvi
ously, the target must be standing on solid ground for this item to function. (In the air, in a high-rise building, or on a boat or airplane are all places of safety against this otherwise potent item.)
\par A }{\i\fs20\cf0 talisman of ultimate evil }{\fs20\cf0 has 6 charges. If a divin
e spellcaster without an allegiance to evil touches one of these medallions, he takes 6d6 points of damage. If a divine spellcaster with an allegiance to good touches one, he takes 8d6 points of damage. All other characters are unaffected by this item.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Artifact (magic); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash ; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 35; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs28\cf0 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {VEHICULAR MAGIC ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf0 This section describes several magic \'93accessories\'94 for vehicles.
\par A vehicular magic item functions only when it is properly placed on or within the vehicle: either atta
ched to the vehicle in its proper place, painted on the vehicle, or incorporated into its design. Simply placing an item in the front seat will not activate the item\rquote 
s magic effect. Removing the vehicular magic item from its intended location also ends the effect, although the item continues to radiate magic.
\par }{\cf0 
\par Vehicular Magic Item Purchase DCs
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A vehicular magic item\rquote s purchase price is 20 + the item\rquote s caster level + its FX modifier. The FX modifier depends on the item\rquote s nature, as shown on the table below:
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20\cf0 Item\rquote s Nature\cell }\pard\plain \s2\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {FX Modifier\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Single-use item\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Continuous effect or bonus\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Limited number of uses per day\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 Limited number of charges\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 +1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20\cf0 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2658\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3946\row 
}\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf0 
\par Limits for FX Items on Vehicles
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Just as characters are limited in their ability to carry magic items, a vehicle can only bear so many functional magic items. The limits are as follows:
\par 1 ramplate or set of bumpers
\par 1 steering wheel
\par 1 coat of paint
\par 1 set of tires
\par 1 pair of headlights
\par 1 horn or siren
\par 1 containment area (ashtray, glove compartment, trunk, etc.)
\par 1 non-electronic accessory (hung from the rear view mirror, on the dashboard, etc.)
\par 1 seat or set of seats
\par 1 engine or engine accessory
\par 1 set of windows (including windshield and side windows)
\par 2 electronic accessories (stereo, CB radio, car alarm, etc.)
\par }{\cf0 
\par Vehicular Magic Items Descriptions
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The following section described several new vehicular magic items.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Ablative Paint Job
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A vehicle coated in this nigh unscratchable silvery-gray paint gains 5 points of hardness. It has no effect on any vehicle with a hardness of 10 or higher.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bumpers of Blasting
\par }{\fs20\cf0 If a vehicle equipped with }{\i\fs20\cf0 bumpers of blasting }{\fs20\cf0 
strikes an object or creature while moving at least street speed the driver of the vehicle can choose to have the bumper emit an explosive blast. The explosion causes 5d6 points of fire damage (in addition to 
any collision damage) to the object or creature struck. The vehicle with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 bumper of blasting }{\fs20\cf0 does not take any damage from the explosion, but does take collision damage as normal.
\par The explosive blast can be triggered three times per day, regardless of w
hether the attack is made with a front or rear bumper. The driver cannot trigger an explosive blast out of turn, such as when struck by another vehicle, although the driver could ready an action to trigger the explosive blast when such a condition arises.

\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 27; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Bumper of the Ram
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This vicious looking spiked bumper must be bolted to the front or back of the vehicle. Any time the driver of the vehicle
 uses the bumper to ram another vehicle or object, damage to the opposed vehicle is increased by one speed and size increment, while damage to the vehicle with the }{\i\fs20\cf0 bumper of the ram }{\fs20\cf0 
is reduced by one speed and one size increment. The bumper of the ram\rquote s effects do not apply to sideswipes}{\i\fs20\cf0 . 
\par Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Dashboard Figurine
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A }{\i\fs20\cf0 dashboard figurine }{\fs20\cf0 appears to be a statue of an animal or person 4 to 6 inches tall
. When placed upon the dashboard of a vehicle, it sticks in place and can only be removed by the owner with a command word. Once in place, the figurine grants a special ability to the vehicle and the driver. 
\par Three different types of dashboard figurines are available: 
\par humorous, monstrous, and religious.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Humorous}{\fs20\cf0 : This figurine depicts some amusing-looking figure, such as a hula dancer or a cartoon character. The driver of the vehicle gains a +1 morale bonus on all saves while operating the vehicle.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Monstrous}{\fs20\cf0 : This figurine depicts some sort of fierce-looking toy monster. Attacks made by the driver and passengers of the vehicle gain a +1 morale bonus. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Religious}{\fs20\cf0 : This is an icon of a saint, the Virgin Mary, or some other being of religious or spiritual significance. This type of }{\i\fs20\cf0 dashboard figurine }{\fs20\cf0 provides a +2 deflection bonus to the vehicle\rquote 
s Defense.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 0.5 lb.
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Engine of Infernal Speed
\par }{\fs20\cf0 A vehicle with this engine can accelerate up to 
two speed categories for the round, instead of one. However, the vehicle can still only decrease speed by one speed category for the round, as normal (unless the driver performs a hard stop). If the vehicle accelerates in this manner, the engine produces 
jets of blue flame from the tail pipe that deal 2d6 points of fire damage to anything within 10 feet of the rear of the vehicle; a successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves the damage. The flames automatically set fire to combustibles. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Flame Job
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This paint job covers the front of the vehicle in wicked-looking flames. Once per day, on the owner\rquote s command, the vehicle  can burst into flames for 3 r
ounds, dealing 5d6 points of fire damage to any creature or object touched or struck by the vehicle. In addition, any creature standing adjacent to the flaming vehicle takes 2d6 points of fire damage; a successful Reflex save (DC 15) halves the damage. Th
e flames automatically set fire to combustibles. Neither the vehicle nor its occupants suffer any ill effects from the fire so long as they remain completely inside the vehicle. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 27; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Fuzzy Dice of Luck
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These gaudy, hot-pink fuzzy dice must be hung from the rearview mirror of the vehicle to be activated. Once per day, the driver of the vehicle can reroll any Drive check, but must take the new result regardless of the outcome.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 25; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Headlights of Blinding
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Three times per day, these headlights can emit a blinding 50- foot cone of light projecting from the front of the vehicle. Any creatures caught in the area must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be blinded for 2d6 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 27; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Horn of Blasting
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Up to three times per day, this horn can emit a shrieking sound that deafens and damages creatures caught in its path. Any creature within a 30-foot co
ne directly in front of the vehicle takes 2d6 points of sonic/concussion damage and is deafened for 2d6 rounds. A successful Fortitude save (DC 16) halves the damage and negates the deafening effect. Crystalline creatures in the cone take quadruple damage
 (8d6 points) from the sonic blast.
\par Vehicle windows and windshields may shatter if they take sufficient damage from the blast. Headlights are also susceptible to the }{\i\fs20\cf0 horn of blasting }{\fs20\cf0 and should be treated as windows for this purpose.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 29; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Horn of Dread
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Up to three times per day, this horn can emit a terrifying noise. Anyone within 50 feet of the horn\rquote s sound must succeed a Will save (DC 15) or be affected by a }{\i\fs20\cf0 cause fear }{\fs20\cf0 
spell (as if cast by a 5th-level Acolyte). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 27; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Impervious Tires
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These tires are usually sold in sets of two or four, and each tire in the set has a hardness of 20.
\par If one of the tires is punctured and ruined, the remaining }{\i\fs20\cf0 impervious tires }{\fs20\cf0 continue to function.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type:}{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28 (per set); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Nondescript Paint Job
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This paint job makes the vehicle less noticeable. It grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Bluff and Hide checks when tailing another vehicle or losing a tail. In addition, any
one wishing to break into the vehicle (other than the owner) must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or be unable to do so. This is a mind-affecting spell-like effect; a new save may be attempted after 24 hours have passed. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Paint Job of Blurring
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, this paint job makes the vehicle\rquote s outline to appear blurry. This is as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 blur }{\fs20\cf0 spell as if cast by a 5th-level Mage. Occupants of the vehicle are also blurred.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 27; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Paralytic Alarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This vehicle alarm triggers whenever an attempt is made to break into the vehicle (for example, by smashing a window or bypassing a door lock), unless the intruder succeeds at a Disable Device check (DC 30).
\par When activated, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 paralytic alarm }{\fs20\cf0 emits a hypnotic pulse that paralyzes any creature within 30 feet for 2d6 rounds. A successful Will save (DC 15) negates this mind-affecting enchantment.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Reinflating Tires
\par }{\fs20\cf0 These tires (usually sold in sets of two or four) are slightly spongy to the touch. If a tire is punctured, it instantly reinflates and is restored to f
ull hit points. Once a tire magically reinflates, it becomes a nonmagical tire and cannot reinflate
\par again.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 23 (per tire) or 26 (per set); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seats of Safety
\par }{\fs20\cf0 
The occupants of a vehicle equipped with these seats gain the benefits of three-quarters cover while inside the vehicle. They take no damage from vehicle collisions, they gain a +7 cover bonus to Defense, and they gain a +3 cover bonus on Reflex saves. Th
e }{\i\fs20\cf0 seats of safety }{\fs20\cf0 do not function if any of the vehicle\rquote s doors are open.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 5th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 28 (per vehicle); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Seat of Hold Monster
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Once per day, when the driver utters the proper command word, this seat (usually a passenger seat in the front or back of the vehicle) holds the creature seated in it, as the }{\i\fs20\cf0 hold monster }{\fs20\cf0 
spell cast by a 10th-level Acolyte. The target creature gets a Will save (DC 17) to negate the effect, which lasts for 10 rounds.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 10th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32 (per seat); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Shrinking Paint Job
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This paint job allows the vehicle to \'93shrink\'94 to a matchboxsized version small enough to fit in the palm of one\rquote 
s hand. Shrinking or enlarging the vehicle requires a command word, and the vehicle takes a full-round action to shrink or return to full size. The vehicle will not shrink if it contains any living beings, but can 
be shrunk with up to 50 pounds of cargo stored in its trunk. The vehicle will not unfold if it is in an area that will not allow it to expand to its full size. A vehicle in its toy size has a hardness of 5 and 5 hit points. The vehicle is destroyed and ca
nnot be repaired if reduced to 0 hit points in its toy form. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Silent Warning Alarm
\par }{\fs20\cf0 This vehicle alarm triggers whenever an attempt is made to break into the vehicle (for example, by smashing the window or bypassing a door lock), unless the intruder succeeds at a Disable Device check (DC 30).
\par When activated, the alarm sends a mental warning to the owner of the vehicle, although the owner must b
e within 1 mile of the vehicle to receive it. If the owner receives the warning and succeeds at a Wisdom check (DC 10), he also receives a mental picture of the individual or individuals attempting to break into the vehicle, as if standing next to them (l
ighting conditions apply). 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Trunk of Masking
\par }{\fs20\cf0 Whenever this trunk is opened, it creates a powerful illusion to conceal its true contents. The
 owner decides what the trunk appears to contain, and its contents seem real in every respect. Illusory items can be removed, handled, and manipulated. However, illusory tools provide no benefits to their users, and illusory items disappear if taken more 
than 30 feet
\par from the vehicle.
\par Gleaning the true contents of the trunk requires a }{\i\fs20\cf0 true seeing }{\fs20\cf0 spell or similar magic. Creatures that suspect the presence of an illusion are entitled to a Will save (DC 16) to disbelieve it; if the save succeeds, they can per
ceive the true contents of the }{\i\fs20\cf0 trunk of masking}{\fs20\cf0 .
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 7th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 30; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash  (factored into the vehicle\rquote s weight).
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Windows of Deception
\par }{\fs20\cf0 The driver of this vehicle can alter his or her appearance to viewers on the outside of the vehicle, as if by }{\i\fs20\cf0 change self }{\fs20\cf0 cast by a 3rd-level Mage. If the one or more of the vehicle\rquote 
s windows are destroyed, the effect ends and the }{\i\fs20\cf0 windows of deception }{\fs20\cf0 cease to function. 
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 3rd; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 26; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }{\b\fs20\cf0 Zephyr Tires
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Zephyr tires }{\fs20\cf0 (sold in sets of two or four) are emblazoned with large white wings on the side. When placed on any car, van, or motorcycle (they resize to fit any of these vehicles), they allow the vehicle to fly.
\par Once per day, the vehicle\rquote 
s driver can command the vehicle to fly. While flying, the vehicle follows all the normal rules for piloting a flying vehicle, but otherwise retains the same speed, initiative, and other statistics. The vehicle can maintain flight for
 10 rounds. When performing aerial stunts, the driver makes Pilot checks instead of Drive checks. Should the effect\rquote 
s duration expire while the vehicle is still aloft, the magic fails slowly. The vehicle drops 60 feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it reaches the ground in that amount of time, it lands safely. If not, it falls the remaining distance. 
\par Zephyr tires have a hardness of 5 and 2 hit points (which also count toward the hit points of the vehicle). If one or more of the tires are destroyed, the }{\i\fs20\cf0 zephyr tires }{\fs20\cf0 
lose their magic and cease to function, and the vehicle (if airborne) plunges from the sky.
\par }{\i\fs20\cf0 Type: }{\fs20\cf0 Wondrous Item (vehicular); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Caster Level: }{\fs20\cf0 9th; }{\i\fs20\cf0 Purchase DC: }{\fs20\cf0 32 (per set); }{\i\fs20\cf0 Weight: }{\fs20\cf0 \emdash .
\par }}