{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Spells (B)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo7\dy19\hr11\min5}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min20}{\version32}{\edmins97}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2495}{\nofchars14223}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open\hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 
 Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (B)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bane
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Clr 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 50 ft.
\par Area: All enemies within 50 ft.
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character's enemies suffer a -1 morale penalty on their attack rolls and a -1 morale penalty on saving throws against fear effects.
\par Bane counters and dispels bless.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Banishment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One or more extraplanar creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Saving Throw: Will negates
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Banishment enables the character to force extrapla
nar creatures out of the character's home plane. Up to 2 HD of creatures per caster level can be banished. To target a creature, the character must present at least one object or substance that it hates, fears, or otherwise opposes. For each such object o
r substance, the character gains +1 on the character's caster level check to overcome the target's SR (if any) and +2 on the saving throw DC.
\par At the DM's option, certain rare items might work twice as well.
\par  
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Barkskin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 2, Plant 2
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Barkskin grants a +3 natural armor bonus to AC. This bonus increases to +4 at 6th level and to +5 at 12th level and up.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bestow Curse
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character places a curse on the creature touched. The character chooses one of the three following effects:
\par -6 effective decrease to an ability score (minimum 1). 
\par -4 enhancement penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, and skill checks. 
\par Each turn, the target has a 50% chance to act normally; otherwise, the target takes no action. 
\par The character may also invent the a new curse, but it should be no more powerful than those listed above, and the DM has final say on the curse's effect.
\par The curse cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed with a break enchantment, limited wish, miracle, remove curse, or wish spell.
\par Bestow curse counters remove curse.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Binding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: One minute
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: See text (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A binding spell creates a magical restraint to hold a creature. The target only gets an initial saving throw if its HD is equal to at least half the character's caster level.
\par The character may have up to six assistants help the character with the spell. For each assistant who casts suggestion, the charac
ter's caster level for this casting of the spell increases by +1. For each assistant who casts dominate animal, dominate person, or dominate monster, the character's effective level increases by a number equal to one-third that assistant's level (provided
 
the target is appropriate for the spell). All the assistants must join in chanting the spell (see the details on the spell's verbal component, below). The character's caster level determines whether the target gets an initial Will saving throw and how lon
g the binding lasts. All binding durations are dismissible.
\par The binding spell has six versions. Choose one of the following versions when the character casts the spell.
\par Chaining: The subject is confined by restraints that generate an antipathy spell affecti
ng all creatures who approach the subject, except the character. Duration is one year per caster level. The subject of this form of binding is confined to the spot it occupied when it received the spell.
\par Slumber: Brings a comatose sleep upon the subject for up to one year per caster level. The subject does not need to eat or drink while slumbering, nor does it age. Reduce the spell's save DC by 1.
\par Bound Slumber: A combination of chaining and slumber that lasts for up to one month per caster level. Reduce save DC by 2.
\par Hedged Prison: The subject is transported to or otherwise brought within a confined area from which it cannot wander by any means. The spell is permanent. Reduce save DC by 3.
\par Metamorphosis: The subject assumes gaseous form, except for its head
 or face. It is held harmless in a jar or other container, which may be transparent (the character's choice). The creature remains aware of its surroundings and can speak, but cannot leave the container, attack, or use any of its powers or abilities. The 
binding is permanent. The subject does not need to breathe, eat, or drink while metamorphosed, nor does it age. Reduce save DC by 4.
\par Minimus Containment: The subject is shrunk to a height of 1 inch or less and held within some gem or similar object or jar. 
The binding is permanent. The subject does not need to breathe, eat, or drink while contained, nor does it age. Reduce save DC by 4.
\par Regardless of the version of binding the character cast, the character can specify triggering conditions that end the spell
 and release the creature whenever they occur. These can be as simple or elaborate as the character desires (but the DM must agree that the condition is reasonable and has a likelihood of coming to pass). The conditions can be based on a creature's name, 
i
dentity, or alignment but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, HD, or hit points don't qualify. Once the spell is cast, its triggering conditions cannot be changed. Setting a release condition incre
ases the save DC (assuming a saving throw is allowed) by +2.
\par In the case of the first three versions of binding (those with limited durations), the character may cast additional binding spells to prolong the effect (the durations overlap). If the character 
does so, the target gets a saving throw at the end of the first spell's duration (even if the character's caster level was high enough to disallow an initial saving throw). If the creature succeeds at this save, all the binding spells it has received are 
broken.
\par Components: Specially made props suited to the specific type of binding (cost 500 gp), plus the spell requires gems worth at least 500 gp for each HD of the target.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Black Tentacles
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: 1d4 tentacles + one tentacle/level, all within 15 ft. of a central point
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell conjures many rubbery black tentacles. These waving members seem to spring forth from the earth, floor, or whatever surface is underfoot\emdash 
including water. There are 1d4 such tentacles, plus one per caster level, appearing randomly scattered about the area. Each tentacle is 10 feet long (Large) and save
s as the character does. It has AC 16, 1 hit point/per caster level, an attack bonus of +1/per caster level, and a Strength score of 19 (+4 bonus). It is immune to spells that don\rquote t cause damage (other than disintegrate).
\par Each round that
 a tentacle is not already grappling someone or something, starting the round after it appears, it makes a grapple attack at a random creature or object within 10 feet of it. These attacks take place on the character's turn. The tentacles do not attack ea
ch other, nor do they attack objects that are smaller than a Medium-size creature. The attacks are like regular grappling attacks, except that they don\rquote 
t provoke attacks of opportunity from opponents. Also, they cause 1d6 points of normal damage (+4 for Strength), not subdual damage. A tentacle maintains its grapple even after its subject is dying or dead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Blade Barrier
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Clr 6, Good 6, War 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 full round
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Spinning disk of blades, up to 
\par 30-ft. radius
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Reflex negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell creates a spinning disk of blades. These whirl around a central point, creating an immobile, circular barrier. Any creat
ure passing through the blade barrier takes 1d6 points of slashing damage per caster level (maximum 20d6). The plane of rotation of the blades can be horizontal, vertical, or slanted.
\par Creatures within the blade barrier when it is invoked take the damage as
 well. They can negate the damage with a successful Reflex saving throw, provided they can and do physically leave the area of the blades by the shortest possible route. Once the barrier is in place, anything entering or passing through the blades automat
ically takes damage.
\par A blade barrier serves as one-half cover (+4 AC) for anyone beyond it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Blasphemy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Evil, Sonic]
\par Level: Clr 7, Evil 7
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Area: Creatures in a 30-ft.-radius spread centered on the character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Casting blasphemy creates two effects.
\par If the character is on the character's home plane, nonevil extraplanar creatures within the area are instantly banished back to their home pla
nes. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least 1 day. This effect takes place regardless of whether the creatures hear the blasphemy.
\par Creatures native to the character's plane who hear the blasphemy and are not evil suffer the following ill effects:
\par HD\tab \tab Effect
\par --\tab \tab ------
\par 12 or more\tab Dazed
\par Less than 12\tab Weakened, dazed
\par Less than 8\tab Paralyzed, weakened, dazed
\par Less than 4\tab Killed
\par The effects are cumulative.
\par Dazed: The creature is dazed and can take no actions for 1 round (but defends itself normally).
\par Weakened: The creature's Strength score decreases by 2d6 points for 2d4 rounds.
\par Paralyzed: The creature is paralyzed and helpless for 1d10 minutes, unable to move or act in any way.
\par Killed: Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bless
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Clr 1, Pal 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 50 ft.
\par Area: All allies within 50 ft.
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character's allies gain a morale bonus of +1 on their attack rolls and a morale bonus of +1 on saving throws against fear effects.
\par Bless counters and dispels bane.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bless Water
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Good]
\par Level: Clr 1, Pal 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 minute
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Flask of water touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This transmutation imbues a flask (1 pint) of water with positive energy, turning it into holy water. Holy water is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 25 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bless Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Pal 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Weapon touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par All critical rolls against evil foes are automatically successful. The weapon negates the damage reduction of evil creatures and is capable of striking evil incorporeal creatures as if it had a +1 enhancement bonus. Also, the wea
pon is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures. Individual arrows or bolts can be transmuted, but affected projectile weapons (such as bows) don't confer the benefit to the projectiles they shoot.
\par This transmutation can't affect any weapon that already has a magical effect related to critical hits.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Blindness/Deafness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Permanent (D)
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The subject becomes blinded or deafened, as the character chooses. In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have 
full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, grants a +2 bonus to attackers' attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a -4 penalty on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skills. A deafened character, in additio
n to the obvious effects, automatically fails Listen checks, suffers a -4 penalty on initiative and has a 20% chance to miscast and lose any spell with a verbal (V) component that he tries to cast.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Blink
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par The blink effect rapidly cycles the character in and out of the ethereal plane. Blinking has several effects:
\par Physical attacks suffer a 50% miss chance, and the Bli
nd-Fight feat doesn't. If the attack is capable of striking ethereal or incorporeal creatures, the miss chance is only 20%. If the attacker can see invisible creatures, the miss chance is also only 20%. If the attacker can both see and strike ethereal cre
atures, the attacker suffers no penalty. Likewise, the character's own attacks suffer a 20% miss chance.
\par Individually targeted spells have a 50% chance to fail against the character while blinking unless the character's attacker can target invisible, ethere
al creatures. Likewise, the character's own spells have a 20% chance to activate just as the character goes ethereal, in which case they typically do not affect the Material Plane.
\par While blinking, the character takes only half damage from area attacks (or 
full damage from those that extend onto the Ethereal Plane). The character strikes as an invisible creature (+2 attack), denying the target any Dexterity bonus to AC. The character suffers only half damage from falling.
\par While blinking, the character can st
ep through (but not see through) solid objects. For each 5 feet of solid material the character walks through, there's a 50% chance that the character becomes material (see below). The character can move only at three-quarters speed.
\par Since the character spends about half the character's time on the Ethereal Plane, the character can see and even attack ethereal creatures. The character interacts with ethereal creatures roughly the same way the character interacts with material ones.

\par An ethereal creature who becomes material while in a material object is shunted off to the nearest open space and takes 1d6 points of damage per 5 feet so traveled.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Blur
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The subject's outline appears blurred. This distortion grants the subject one-half concealment (20% miss chance).
\par A see invisibility spell does not counteract the blur effect, but a true seeing spell does.
\par Note: Opponents who cannot see the subject ignore the spell's effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Break Enchantment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 4, Clr 5, Luck 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 minute
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target or Targets: Up to one creature per level, all within 30 ft. of each other
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell frees creatures from enchantments, transmutations, cu
rses, and petrification (as well as other magical transformations). Break enchantment can reverse even an instantaneous effect. For each such effect, the character makes a check of 1d20 + caster level (maximum +15) against a DC of 11 + caster level of the
 effect. Success means that the creature is free of the spell, curse, or effect. For cursed magic items, the DC is 25.
\par If the spell is one that, as a special property, cannot be dispelled by dispel magic, break enchantment works only if that spell is 5th level or lower.
\par If the effect comes from some permanent magic item, such as a cursed sword, break enchantment does not remove the curse from the item but merely frees the victim from the item's effects, leaving the item cursed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Bull's Strength
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Strength 2
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The spell grants an enhancement bonus to Strength of 1d4+1 points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Burning Hands
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Fire]
\par Level: Fire 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Area: Semicircular burst of flames 10 ft. long, centered on the character's hands
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Reflex half
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A thin sheet of flame shoots from the character's outspread fingertips. The sheet of flame is about as thick as the character's thumbs. Any creature in the area of the flames t
akes 1d4 points of fire damage per the character's caster level (maximum 5d4). Flammable materials such as cloth, paper, parchment, and thin wood burn if the flames touch them.
\par }}