{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (N & O)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy12\hr8\min29}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min18}{\version13}{\edmins15}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1039}{\nofchars5925}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public\hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 
 use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (N & O)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Negative Energy Protection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The warded creature gains partial protection from undead creatures who use negative energy and certain weapons and spells that drain energy levels. The negative energy protection spell uses positive energy, which
 can offset the effects of a negative energy attack. Each time the warded creature is struck by a negative energy attack that drains levels or ability scores, it rolls 1d20 + caster level against a DC of 11 + the attacker\rquote s HD.
\par If the warded creature succe
eds, the energies cancel. The warded creature takes only hit point damage from the attack and does not suffer any drain of experience levels or ability scores, regardless of the number of levels or ability score points the attack would have drained. An at
tacking undead creature takes 2d6 points of damage from the positive energy. An attacking caster or weapon receives no damage.
\par If the warded creature does not succeed, the negative energy attack deals its normal damage. An attacking undead creature in such a situation does not take any positive energy damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Neutralize Poison
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 3, Pal 4, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature or object of up to 1 cu. ft./level touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par The character detoxifies any sort of venom in the creature or object touched. A poisoned creature suffers no additional damage or effects from th
e poison, and any temporary effects are ended, but the spell does not reverse instantaneous effects, such as hit point damage, temporary ability damage, or effects that don\rquote t go away on their own. 
\par This spell also neutralizes the poison in a poisonous creature or object. A poisonous creature replenishes its poison at its normal rate.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Nightmare
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting, Evil]
\par Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Unlimited
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character sends a hideous and unsettling phantasmal vision to a specific creature whom the character names or otherwise specifically designates. The nightmare prevents restful sleep and caus
es 1d10 points of damage. The nightmare leaves the subject tired out and unable to regain arcane spells for the next 24 hours.
\par Dispel evil cast on the subject while the character is casting the spell dispels the nightmare and stuns the character for 10 minutes per caster level of the dispel evil. While the character is stunned, the character can\rquote 
t act, the character loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, and attackers get a +2 bonus against the character.
\par If the recipient is awake when the spell begins, the chara
cter can choose to cease casting (ending the spell) or enter a trance until the recipient goes to sleep, whereupon the character becomes alert again and completes the casting. If the character is disturbed during the trance, the spell ends.
\par If the character chooses to enter a trance, the character is not aware of the character's surroundings or the activities around the character while in the trance. The character is defenseless, both physically and mentally, while in the trance.
\par Creatures who don\rquote t sleep or dream are immune to this spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Nondetection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 3, Trickery 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature or object touched
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par The warded creature or object becomes difficult to detect by divination. Nondetection also prevents location by such magic items as crystal balls. If a divination is attempted against the warded creature or item, th
e caster of the divination must succeed at a caster level check (1d20 + caster level) against a DC of 11 + the caster level of the spellcaster who cast nondetection. If the character cast nondetection on the character's self or on an item currently in the
 character's possession, the DC is 15 + the character's caster level.
\par If cast on a creature, nondetection wards the creature\rquote s gear as well as the creature itself.
\par Material Component: Worth 50 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Obscure Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One object touched of up to 100 lb./level
\par Duration: 8 hours
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell hides an object from location by a spell, a crystal ball, and other forms of scrying.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Obscuring Mist
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Air 1, Clr 1, Drd 1, Sor/Wiz 1,
\par Water 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Effect: Cloud centered on the character spreads 30 ft. and is 20 ft. high
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par A misty vapor arises around the character. It is stationary once created. The va
por obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature 5 feet away has one-half concealment (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker cannot use sight to locate the 
target).
\par A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4 rounds. A strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round. A fire spell burns away the fog in the explosive or fiery spell\rquote s area.
\par  This spell does not function underwater.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Open/Close
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: Portal or object that can be opened or closed
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par The character can open or close (caster\rquote 
s choice) a door, chest, box, window, bag, pouch, bottle, or other container. If anything resists this activity the spell fails. In addition, the spell can only open and close things that are of standard weight. 
\par 
\par }{\i Order\rquote s Wrath
\par }{Evocation [Lawful]
\par Level: Law 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Nonlawful creatures within a burst that fills a 30-ft. cube
\par Duration: Instantaneous (1 round)
\par Saving Throw: Reflex partial (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character channels lawful power to smite enemies. The power takes the form of a three-dimensional grid of energy. Only chaotic and neutral (not lawful) creatures are harmed by the spell.
\par The
 spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to chaotic creatures and dazes them for 1 round. A dazed creature can take no actions but suffers no penalties when attacked. A successful Reflex save reduces the damage to half and neg
ates the daze effect.
\par The spell deals only half damage to creatures who are neither chaotic nor lawful, and they are not dazed. They can reduce the damage in half again (down to one-quarter of the roll) with a successful Reflex save.
\par }}