{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx1800\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells I}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo7\dy18\hr14\min35}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min17}{\printim\yr2002\mo7\dy29\hr11\min8}{\version31}{\edmins115}{\nofpages18}
{\nofwords7399}{\nofchars42178}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws51797}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 SPELLS I
\par 
\par SPELL LISTS
\par 
\par BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par 0-LEVEL BARD SPELLS (CANTRIPS)
\par 
\par Dancing Lights\tab Figment torches or other lights. 
\par Daze \tab Creature loses next action. 
\par Detect Magic \tab Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft. 
\par Flare\tab Dazzles one creature (-1 attack). 
\par Ghost Sound \tab Figment sounds. 
\par Light \tab Object shines like a torch. 
\par Mage Hand \tab 5-pound telekinesis. 
\par Mending \tab Makes minor repairs on an object. 
\par Open/Close \tab Opens or closes small or light things. 
\par Prestidigitation \tab Performs minor tricks. 
\par Read Magic \tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par Resistance \tab Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
\par 
\par 1st-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Alarm \tab Wards an area for 2 hours/level. 
\par Cause Fear \tab One creature flees for 1d4 rounds. 
\par Charm \tab Person Makes one person the caster\rquote s friend. 
\par Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Detect Secret Doors \tab Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 
\par Erase \tab Mundane or magical writing vanishes. 
\par Expeditious Retreat \tab Doubles the caster\rquote s speed. 
\par Feather Fall \tab Objects or creatures fall slowly. 
\par Grease \tab Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery. 
\par Hypnotism \tab Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures. 
\par Identify \tab Determines single feature of magic item. 
\par Mage Armor \tab Gives subject +4 armor bonus. 
\par Magic Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par Message \tab Whispered conversation at distance. 
\par Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law \tab +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out
\par }\pard \ql \li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {\fs22 elementals and outsiders. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {\fs22 Silent Image \tab Creates minor illusion of the caster\rquote s design. 
\par Sleep \tab Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber. 
\par Summon Monster I \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Unseen Servant \tab Creates invisible force that obeys the caster\rquote s commands. 
\par Ventriloquism \tab Throws voice for 1 min./level. 
\par 
\par 2nd-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Animal Trance \tab Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals. 
\par Blindness/Deafness \tab Makes subject blind or deaf. 
\par Blur \tab Attacks miss subject 20% of the time. 
\par Bull's Strength \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Str for 1 hr./level. 
\par Cat's Grace \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Dex for 1 hr./level. 
\par Cure Moderate Wounds \tab Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10). 
\par Darkness \tab 20-ft. radius of supernatural darkness. 
\par Daylight\tab 60-ft. radius of bright light. 
\par Delay Poison \tab Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 
\par Detect Thoughts \tab Allows "listening" to surface thoughts. 
\par Enthrall \tab Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level. 
\par Glitterdust \tab Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures. 
\par Hold Person \tab Holds one person helpless for 1 round/level. 
\par Hypnotic Pattern \tab Fascinates 2d4+1 HD/level of creatures. 
\par Invisibility \tab Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks. 
\par Levitate \tab Subject moves up and down at the caster\rquote s direction. 
\par Locate Object \tab Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
\par Magic Mouth \tab Speaks once when triggered. 
\par Minor Image \tab As silent image, plus some sound. 
\par Mirror Image \tab Creates decoy duplicates of the caster (1d4 +1/three levels, max 8). 
\par Misdirection \tab Misleads divinations for one creature or object. 
\par Obscure Object \tab Masks object against divination. 
\par Pyrotechnics \tab Turns fire into blinding light or choking smoke. 
\par Scare \tab Panics creatures up to 5 HD (15-ft. radius). 
\par See Invisibility \tab Reveals invisible creatures or objects. 
\par Shatter \tab Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
\par Silence \tab Negates sound in 15-ft. radius. 
\par Sound Burst \tab Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them. 
\par Suggestion \tab Compels subject to follow stated course of action. 
\par Summon Monster II \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Summon Swarm \tab Summons swarm of small crawling or flying creatures. 
\par Hideous Laughter \tab Subject loses actions for 1d3 rounds. 
\par Tongues \tab Speak any language. 
\par Undetectable Alignment \tab Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
\par Whispering Wind \tab Sends a short message one mile/level. 
\par 
\par 3rd-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Bestow Curse \tab -6 to an ability; -4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action. 
\par Blink \tab The caster randomly vanishes and reappears for 1 round/level. 
\par Charm Monster \tab Makes monster believe it is the caster\rquote s ally. 
\par Clairaudience/Clairvoyance \tab Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level. 
\par Confusion \tab Makes subject behave oddly for 1 round/level. 
\par Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par Displacement \tab Attacks miss subject 50%. 
\par Emotion \tab Arouses strong emotion in subject. 
\par Fear \tab Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level. 
\par Gaseous Form \tab Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly. 
\par Greater Magic Weapon \tab +1 bonus/three levels (max +5). 
\par Gust of Wind \tab Blows away or knocks down smaller creatures. 
\par Haste \tab Extra partial action and +4 AC. 
\par Illusory Script \tab Only intended reader can decipher. 
\par Invisibility Sphere \tab Makes everyone within 10 ft. invisible. 
\par Keen Edge \tab Doubles normal weapon's threat range. 
\par Lesser Geas \tab Commands subject of 7 HD or less. 
\par Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 
\par Major Image \tab As silent image, plus sound, smell and thermal effects. 
\par Phantom Steed \tab Magical horse appears for 1 hour/level. 
\par Remove Curse \tab Frees object or person from curse. 
\par Remove Disease \tab Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
\par Scrying \tab Spies on subject from a distance. 
\par Sculpt Sound \tab Creates new sounds or changes existing ones. 
\par Sepia Snake Sigil \tab Creates text symbol that immobilizes reader. 
\par Slow \tab One subject/level takes only partial actions, -2 AC, -2 melee rolls. 
\par Summon Monster III \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Tiny Hut \tab Creates shelter for 10 creatures.
\par Wind Wall \tab Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 
\par 
\par 4th-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Break Enchantment \tab Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification. 
\par Cure Critical Wounds \tab Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par Detect Scrying \tab Alerts the caster of magical eavesdropping. 
\par Dimension Door \tab Teleports the caster and up to 500 lb. 
\par Dismissal \tab Forces a creature to return to native plane. 
\par Dominate Person \tab Controls humanoid telepathically. 
\par Hallucinatory Terrain \tab Makes one type of terrain appear like another (field into forest, etc.). 
\par Hold Monster \tab As hold person, but any creature. 
\par Improved Invisibility \tab As invisibility, but subject can attack and stay invisible. 
\par Legend Lore \tab Learn tales about a person, place, or thing. 
\par Locate Creature \tab Indicates direction to familiar creature. 
\par Modify Memory \tab Changes 5 minutes of subject's memories. 
\par Neutralize Poison \tab Detoxifies venom in or on subject. 
\par Rainbow Pattern \tab Lights prevent 24 HD of creatures from attacking or moving away. 
\par Secure Shelter \tab Creates sturdy cottage. 
\par Shout \tab Deafens all within cone and deals 2d6 damage. 
\par Summon Monster IV \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par 
\par  
\par 
\par 5th-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Contact Other Plane \tab Ask question of extraplanar entity. 
\par Control Water \tab Raises or lowers bodies of water. 
\par Dream \tab Sends message to anyone sleeping. 
\par False Vision \tab Fools scrying with an illusion. 
\par Greater Dispelling \tab As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
\par Healing Circle \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par Mind Fog \tab Subjects in fog get -10 Wis, Will checks. 
\par Mirage Arcana \tab As hallucinatory terrain, plus structures. 
\par Mislead \tab Turns the caster invisible and creates illusory double. 
\par Nightmare \tab Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue. 
\par Persistent Image \tab As major image, but no concentration required. 
\par Summon Monster V \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par 
\par 6th-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 
\par 
\par Control Weather \tab Changes weather in local area. 
\par Eyebite \tab Charm, fear, sicken or sleep one subject. 
\par Geas/Quest \tab As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
\par Greater Scrying \tab As scrying, but faster and longer. 
\par Mass Haste \tab As haste, affects one/level subjects. 
\par Mass Suggestion \tab As suggestion, plus one/level subjects. 
\par Permanent Image \tab Includes sight, sound, and smell. 
\par Plane Shift \tab Up to eight subjects travel to another plane. 
\par Programmed Image\tab As major image, plus triggered by event. 
\par Project Image\tab Illusory double can talk and cast spells. 
\par Repulsion \tab Creatures can't approach the caster. 
\par Summon Monster VI \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Veil \tab Changes appearance of group of creatures. 
\par 
\par CLERIC SPELLS
\par 
\par 0-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS (Orisons) 
\par Create Water \tab Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 
\par Cure Minor Wounds \tab Cures 1 point of damage. 
\par Detect Magic \tab Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft. 
\par Detect Poison \tab Detects poison in one creature or small object. 
\par Guidance \tab +1 on one roll, save, or check. 
\par Inflict Minor Wounds \tab Touch attack, 1 point of damage. 
\par Light \tab Object shines like a torch. 
\par Mending \tab Makes minor repairs on an object. 
\par Purify Food and Drink \tab Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water. 
\par Read Magic \tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par Resistance \tab Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
\par Virtue\tab Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 
\par     
\par 1st-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Bane \tab Enemies suffer -1 attack, -1 on saves against fear. 
\par Bless \tab Allies gain +1 attack and +1 on saves against fear. 
\par Bless Water \tab Makes holy water. 
\par Cause Fear \tab One creature flees for 1d4 rounds. 
\par Command \tab One subject obeys one-word command for 1 round. 
\par Comprehend Languages \tab Understand all spoken and written languages. 
\par Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Curse Water \tab Makes unholy water. 
\par Deathwatch \tab Sees how wounded subjects within 30 ft. are. 
\par Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law \tab Reveals creatures, spells, or objects. 
\par Detect Undead \tab Reveals undead within 60 ft. 
\par Divine Favor\tab The caster gains attack, damage bonus, +1/three levels. 
\par Doom \tab One subject suffers -2 on attacks, damage, saves, and checks. 
\par Endure Elements \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Entropic Shield \tab Ranged attacks against the caster suffer 20% miss chance. 
\par Inflict Light Wounds\tab Touch, 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Invisibility to Undead \tab Undead can't perceive one subject/level. 
\par Magic Stone \tab Three stones gain +1 attack, deal 1d6+1 damage. 
\par Magic Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par Obscuring Mist \tab Fog surrounds the caster. 
\par Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs22 Random Action \tab \tab One creature acts randomly for one round. 
\par Remove Fear \tab \tab \tab +4 on saves against fear for one subject +1/four levels. 
\par Sanctuary \tab \tab \tab Opponents can't attack the caster, and the caster can't attack. 
\par Shield of Faith \tab \tab \tab Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {\fs22 Summon Monster I \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par     
\par 2nd-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Aid\tab +1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hit points. 
\par Animal Messenger\tab Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
\par Augury \tab Learns whether an action will be good or bad. 
\par Bull's Strength \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Str for 1 hr./level. 
\par Calm Emotions \tab Calms 1d6 subjects/level, negating emotion effects. 
\par Consecrate \tab Fills area with positive energy, making undead weaker. 
\par Cure Moderate Wounds \tab Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10). 
\par Darkness \tab 20-ft. radius of supernatural darkness. 
\par Death Knell \tab Kills dying creature; the caster gain 1d8 temporary hp, +2 Str, and +1 level. 
\par Delay Poison \tab Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 
\par Desecrate \tab Fills area with negative energy, making undead stronger. 
\par Endurance \tab Gain 1d4+1 Con for 1 hr./level. 
\par Enthrall \tab Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level. 
\par Find Traps \tab Notice traps as a rogue does. 
\par Gentle Repose \tab Preserves one corpse. 
\par Hold Person\tab Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level. 
\par Inflict Moderate Wounds \tab Touch attack, 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10). 
\par Lesser Restoration \tab Dispels magic ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage. 
\par Make Whole \tab Repairs an object. 
\par Remove Paralysis \tab Frees one or more creatures from paralysis, hold, or slow. 
\par Resist Elements \tab Ignores 12 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Shatter\tab  Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
\par Shield Other \tab The caster takes half of subject's damage. 
\par Silence \tab Negates sound in 15-ft. radius. 
\par Sound Burst \tab Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them. 
\par Speak with Animals \tab The caster can communicate with natural animals. 
\par Spiritual Weapon \tab Magical weapon attacks on its own. 
\par Summon Monster II \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Undetectable Alignment \tab Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
\par Zone of Truth \tab Subjects within range cannot lie. 
\par     
\par 3rd-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Animate Dead \tab Creates undead skeletons and zombies. 
\par Bestow Curse \tab -6 to an ability; -4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action. 
\par Blindness/Deafness \tab Makes subject blind or deaf. 
\par Contagion \tab Infects subject with chosen disease. 
\par Continual Flame \tab Makes a permanent, heatless torch. 
\par Create Food and Water \tab Feeds three humans (or one horse)/level. 
\par Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par Daylight \tab 60-ft. radius of bright light. 
\par Deeper Darkness \tab Object sheds absolute darkness in 60-ft. radius. 
\par Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par Glyph of Warding \tab Inscription harms those who pass it. 
\par Helping Hand \tab Ghostly hand leads subject to the caster. 
\par Inflict Serious Wounds \tab Touch attack, 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par Invisibility Purge \tab Dispels invisibility within 5 ft./level. 
\par Locate Object\tab Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
\par Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 
\par Magic Vestment \tab Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement/three levels. 
\par Meld into Stone \tab The caster and the caster\rquote s gear merge with stone. 
\par Negative Energy Protection \tab Subject resists level and ability drains. 
\par Obscure Object \tab Masks object against divination. 
\par Prayer \tab Allies gain +1 on most rolls, and enemies suffer -1. 
\par Protection from Elements \tab Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par Remove Blindness/Deafness \tab Cures normal or magical conditions. 
\par Remove Curse \tab Frees object or person from curse. 
\par Remove Disease \tab Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
\par Searing Light\tab Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead. 
\par Speak with Dead \tab Corpse answers one question/two levels. 
\par Speak with Plants \tab The caster can talk to normal plants and plant creatures. 
\par Stone Shape \tab Sculpts stone into any form. 
\par Summon Monster III \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Water Breathing \tab Subjects can breathe underwater. 
\par Water Walk \tab Subject treads on water as if solid. 
\par Wind Wall \tab Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 
\par     
\par 4th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Air Walk \tab Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree angle). 
\par Control Water \tab Raises or lowers bodies of water. 
\par Cure Critical Wounds \tab Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par Death Ward \tab Grants immunity to death spells and effects. 
\par Dimensional Anchor \tab Bars extradimensional movement. 
\par Discern Lies \tab Reveals deliberate falsehoods. 
\par Dismissal \tab Forces a creature to return to native plane. 
\par Divination \tab Provides useful advice for specific proposed actions. 
\par Divine Power \tab The caster gains attack bonus, 18 Str, and 1 hp/level. 
\par Freedom of Movement \tab Subject moves normally despite impediments. 
\par Giant Vermin \tab Turns insects into giant vermin. 
\par Greater Magic Weapon \tab +1 bonus/three levels (max +5). 
\par Imbue with Spell Ability \tab Transfer spells to subject. 
\par Inflict Critical Wounds \tab Touch attack, 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par Lesser Planar Ally \tab Exchange services with an 8 HD outsider. 
\par Neutralize Poison \tab Detoxifies venom in or on subject. 
\par Poison \tab Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min. 
\par Repel Vermin \tab Insects stay 10 ft. away. 
\par Restoration \tab Restores level and ability score drains. 
\par Sending \tab Delivers short message anywhere, instantly. 
\par Spell Immunity \tab Subject is immune to one spell/four levels. 
\par Status \tab Monitors condition, position of allies. 
\par Summon Monster IV \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Tongues \tab Speak any language. 
\par     
\par 5th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Atonement \tab Removes burden of misdeeds from subject. 
\par Break Enchantment \tab Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification. 
\par Circle of Doom \tab Deals 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par Commune \tab Deity answers one yes-or-no question/level. 
\par Dispel Chaos/Evil/Good/Law \tab +4 bonus against attacks. 
\par Ethereal Jaunt \tab The caster becomes ethereal for 1 round/level. 
\par Flame Strike \tab Smites foes with divine fire (1d6/level). 
\par Greater Command \tab As command, but affects one subject/level. 
\par Hallow \tab Designates location as holy. 
\par Healing Circle\tab  Cures 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par Insect Plague \tab Insect horde limits vision, inflicts damage, and weak creatures flee. 
\par Mark of Justice \tab Designates action that will trigger curse on subject. 
\par Plane Shift \tab Up to eight subjects travel to another plane. 
\par Raise Dead \tab Restores life to subject who died up to 1 day/level ago. 
\par Righteous Might \tab The caster\rquote s size increases, and the caster gains +4 Str. 
\par Scrying \tab Spies on subject from a distance. 
\par Slay Living \tab Touch attack kills subject. 
\par Spell Resistance \tab Subject gains +12 +1/level SR. 
\par Summon Monster V \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par True Seeing \tab See all things as they really are. 
\par Unhallow \tab Designates location as unholy. 
\par Wall of Stone \tab Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
\par     
\par 6th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Animate Objects \tab Objects attack the caster\rquote s foes. 
\par Antilife Shell \tab 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures. 
\par Banishment\tab Banishes 2 HD/level extraplanar creatures. 
\par Blade Barrier \tab Blades encircling the caster deal 1d6 damage/level. 
\par Create Undead \tab Ghouls, shadows, ghasts, wights, or wraiths. 
\par Etherealness \tab Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions. 
\par Find the Path\tab Shows most direct way to a location. 
\par Forbiddance \tab Denies area to creatures of another alignment. 
\par Geas/Quest \tab As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
\par Greater Dispelling \tab As dispel magic, but up to +20 on check. 
\par Greater Glyph of Warding \tab As glyph of warding, but up to 10d8 damage or 6th level spell. 
\par Harm \tab Subject loses all but 1d4 hp. 
\par Heal \tab Cures all damage, diseases, and mental conditions. 
\par Heroes' Feast \tab Food for one creature/level cures and blesses. 
\par Planar Ally \tab As lesser planar ally, but up to 16 HD. 
\par Summon Monster VI \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Wind Walk \tab The caster and the caster\rquote s allies turn vaporous and travel fast. 
\par Word of Recall \tab Teleports the caster back to designated place. 
\par     
\par 7th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Blasphemy \tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonevil subjects. 
\par Control Weather \tab Changes weather in local area. 
\par Destruction \tab Kills subject and destroys remains. 
\par Dictum \tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonlawful subjects. 
\par Greater Restoration \tab As restoration, plus restores all levels and ability scores 
\par Greater Scrying \tab As scrying, but faster and longer. 
\par Holy Word \tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nongood subjects. 
\par Refuge \tab Alters item to transport its possessor to the caster. 
\par Regenerate \tab Subject's severed limbs grow back. 
\par Repulsion \tab Creatures can't approach the caster. 
\par Resurrection \tab Fully restore dead subject. 
\par Summon Monster VII \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Word of Chaos \tab Kills, confuses, stuns, or deafens nonchaotic subjects. 
\par     
\par 8th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Antimagic Field \tab Negates magic within 10 ft. 
\par Cloak of Chaos \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against lawful spells. 
\par Create Greater \tab Undead Mummies, spectres, vampires, or ghosts. 
\par Discern Location \tab Exact location of creature or object. 
\par Earthquake \tab Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
\par Fire Storm \tab Deals 1d6 fire damage/level. 
\par Greater Planar Ally \tab As lesser planar ally, but up to 24 HD. 
\par Holy Aura \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells. 
\par Mass Heal \tab As heal, but with several subjects. 
\par Shield of Law \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic spells. 
\par Summon Monster VIII \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par Symbol \tab Triggered runes have array of effects. 
\par Unholy Aura \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against good spells. 
\par     
\par 9th-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
\par Astral Projection \tab Projects the caster and companions into Astral Plane. 
\par Energy Drain \tab Subject gains 2d4 negative levels. 
\par Gate \tab Connects two planes for travel or summoning. 
\par Implosion \tab Kills one creature/round. 
\par Miracle \tab Requests a deity's intercession. 
\par Soul Bind \tab Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection. 
\par Storm of Vengeance\tab Storm rains acid, lightning, and hail. 
\par Summon Monster IX \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par True Resurrection \tab As resurrection, plus remains aren't needed. 
\par 
\par CLERIC DOMAINS
\par 
\par Air Domain 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx1800\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Powers:Turn or destroy earth creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke or command air creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + the character\rquote s Charisma modifier.

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Obscuring \tab Mist Fog surrounds the caster. 
\par 2. Wind Wall \tab Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 
\par 3. Gaseous Form\tab Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly. 
\par 4. Air Walk \tab Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree angle) 
\par 5. Control Winds \tab Change wind direction and speed. 
\par 6. Chain Lightning \tab 1d6 damage/level; secondary bolts. 
\par 7. Control Weather \tab Changes weather in local area. 
\par 8. Whirlwind Whirlwind. \tab Cyclone inflicts damage and can pick up creatures. 
\par 9. Elemental Swarm* \tab Summons multiple elementals. 
\par *Cast as an air spell only.
\par 
\par Animal Domain
\par 
\par Granted Powers: The character can cast animal friendship once per day. Knowledge (nature) is a class skill.
\par 
\par 1. Calm Animals \tab Calms 2d4 +1/level HD of animals, beasts, and magical beasts 
\par 2. Hold Animal \tab Hold one animal helpless; 1 round/level. 
\par 3. Dominate \tab Animal Subject animal obeys silent mental commands. 
\par 4. Repel Vermin \tab Insects stay 10 ft. away. 
\par 5. Commune with Nature \tab Learn about terrain for one mile/level. 
\par 6. Antilife Shell \tab 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures. 
\par 7. Animal Shapes \tab One ally/level polymorphs into chosen animal. 
\par 8. Creeping Doom \tab Carpet of insects attacks at the caster\rquote s command. 
\par 9. Shapechange \tab Transforms the caster into any creature, and change forms once per round. 
\par 
\par Chaos Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: The character casts chaos spells at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Protection from Law +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders 
\par 2. Shatter \tab Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
\par 3. Magic Circle against Law \tab As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level 
\par 4. Chaos Hammer\tab Damages and staggers lawful creatures. 
\par 5. Dispel Law \tab +4 bonus against attacks by lawful creatures. 
\par 6. Animate Objects \tab Objects attack the caster\rquote s foes. 
\par 7. Word of Chaos \tab Kills, confuses, stuns, or deafens nonchaotic subjects. 
\par 8. Cloak of Chaos \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against lawful spells. 
\par 9. Summon Monster IX*\tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par *Cast as a chaos spell only.
\par 
\par Death Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: The character may use a death touch once per day. The character\rquote s deat
h touch is a spell-like ability that is a death effect. The character must succeed at a melee touch attack against a living creature (using the rules for touch spells). When the character touches, roll 1d6 per the character\rquote 
s cleric level. If the total at least equals the creature\rquote s current hit points, it dies.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Cause Fear \tab One creature flees for 1d4 rounds. 
\par 2. Death Knell \tab Kill dying creature and gain 1d8 temp. hp, +2 Str, and +1 caster level 
\par 3. Animate Dead \tab Creates undead skeletons and zombies. 
\par 4. Death Ward \tab Grants immunity to death spells and effects. 
\par 5. Slay Living \tab Touch attack kills subject. 
\par 6. Create Undead \tab Ghouls, shadows, ghasts, wights, or wraiths. 
\par 7. Destruction \tab Kills subject and destroys remains. 
\par 8. Create Greater Undead \tab Mummies, spectres, vampires, or ghosts. 
\par 9. Wail of the Banshee\tab  Kills one creature/level. 
\par 
\par Destruction Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: The character gains the smite power, the supernatural ability to 
make a single melee attack with a +4 attack bonus and a damage bonus equal to the character\rquote s cleric level (if the character hits). The character must declare the smite before making the attack. It is usable once per day.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Inflict Light Wounds \tab Touch attack, 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par 2. Shatter \tab Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
\par 3. Contagion \tab Infects subject with chosen disease. 
\par 4. Inflict Critical Wounds \tab Touch attack, 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par 5. Circle of Doom \tab Deals 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par 6. Harm \tab Subject loses all but 1d4 hp. 
\par 7. Disintegrate \tab Makes one creature or object vanish. 
\par 8. Earthquake \tab Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
\par 9. Implosion \tab Kills one creature/round. 
\par 
\par Earth Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Gran
ted Power: Turn or destroy air creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke or command earth creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + the character\rquote s Charisma modifier.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Magic Stone \tab Three stones become +1 projectiles, 1d6+1 damage. 
\par 2. Soften Earth and Stone \tab Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or mud. 
\par 3. Stone Shape \tab Sculpts stone into any form. 
\par 4. Spike Stones \tab Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be slowed. 
\par 5. Wall of Stone \tab Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
\par 6. Stoneskin \tab Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes. 
\par 7. Earthquake \tab Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
\par 8. Iron Body \tab The character\rquote s body becomes living iron. 
\par 9. Elemental Swarm.* \tab Summons multiple elementals. 
\par *Cast as an earth spell only.
\par 
\par Evil Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: The character casts evil spells at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Protection from Good \tab +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders 
\par 2. Desecrate \tab Fills area with negative energy, making undead stronger. 
\par 3. Magic Circle against Good \tab As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level 
\par 4. Unholy Blight \tab Damages and sickens good creatures. 
\par 5. Dispel Good \tab +4 bonus against attacks by good creatures. 
\par 6. Create Undead\tab Ghouls, shadows, ghasts, wights, or wraiths. 
\par 7. Blasphemy \tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonevil subjects. 
\par 8. Unholy Aura \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against good spells. 
\par 9. Summon Monster IX.* \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par *Cast as an evil spell only.
\par 
\par Fire Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Power: Turn or destroy water creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke or command fire creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + the character\rquote s Charisma modifier.

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Burning Hands \tab 1d4 fire damage/level (max 5d4). 
\par 2. Produce Flame \tab 1d4 +1/two levels damage, touch or thrown. 
\par 3. Resist Elements.* \tab Ignore first 12 damage from one energy type each round. 
\par 4. Wall of Fire \tab Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level. 
\par 5. Fire Shield \tab Creatures attacking the caster take fire damage; the caster is protected from heat or cold. 
\par 6. Fire Seeds \tab Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 
\par 7. Fire Storm \tab Deals 1d6 fire damage/level. 
\par 8. Incendiary Cloud \tab Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round. 
\par 9. Elemental Swarm.** \tab Summons multiple elementals. 
\par *Resist cold or fire only.
\par **Cast as a fire spell only.
\par 
\par Good Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: The character casts good spells at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Protection from Evil \tab +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
\par 2. Aid \tab +1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d6 temporary hit points. 
\par 3. Magic Circle against Evil \tab As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 
\par 4. Holy Smite \tab Damages and blinds evil creatures. 
\par 5. Dispel Evil \tab +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures. 
\par 6. Blade Barrier \tab Blades encircling the caster deal 1d6 damage/level. 
\par 7. Holy Word \tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nongood subjects. 
\par 8. Holy Aura \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells. 
\par 9. Summon Monster IX.* \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par *Cast as a good spell only.
\par 
\par Healing Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: The character casts healing spells at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par 2. Cure Moderate Wounds \tab Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10). 
\par 3. Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par 4. Cure Critical Wounds \tab Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par 5. Healing Circle \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par 6. Heal \tab Cures all damage, diseases, and mental conditions. 
\par 7. Regenerate \tab Subject's severed limbs grow back. 
\par 8. Mass Heal \tab As heal, but with several subjects. 
\par 9. True Resurrection \tab As resurrection, plus remains aren't needed. 
\par 
\par Knowledge Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: All Knowledge skills are class skills. The character casts divinations at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Detect Secret Doors \tab Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 
\par 2. Detect Thoughts \tab Allows "listening" to surface thoughts. 
\par 3. Clairaudience/Clairvoyance \tab Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level. 
\par 4. Divination \tab Provides useful advice on to specific proposed actions. 
\par 5. True Seeing \tab See all things as they really are. 
\par 6. Find the Path \tab Shows most direct way to a location. 
\par 7. Legend Lore \tab Learn tales about a person, place, or thing. 
\par 8. Discern Location \tab Exact location of creature or object. 
\par 9. Foresight \tab "Sixth sense" warns of impending danger. 
\par 
\par Law Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: The character casts Law spells at +1 caster level.
\par 
\par 1. Protection from Chaos\tab +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
\par 2. Calm Emotions \tab Calms 1d6 creatures/level, negating emotion effects. 
\par 3. Magic Circle against Chaos \tab As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level 
\par 4. Order\rquote s Wrath \tab Damages and dazes chaotic creatures. 
\par 5. Dispel Chaos \tab +4 bonus against attacks by chaotic creatures. 
\par 6. Hold Monster \tab As hold person, but any creature. 
\par 7. Dictum\tab Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonlawful subjects. 
\par 8. Shield of Law \tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic spells. 
\par 9. Summon Monster IX.* \tab Calls outsider to fight for the caster. 
\par 
\par *Cast as a law spell only.
\par 
\par Luck Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Power: The character gains the power of good fortune, which is usable once per day. This extraordinary ability allows the character to reroll one roll that the character has just made. The character must take the result of the reroll, even if it
\rquote s worse than the original roll. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Entropic Shield \tab  Ranged attacks against the caster suffer 20% miss chance. 
\par 2. Aid \tab +1 attack, +1 against fear, 1d8 temporary hit points. 
\par 3. Protection from Elements \tab Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par 4. Freedom of Movement \tab Subject moves normally despite impediments. 
\par 5. Break Enchantment \tab Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses,and petrification. 
\par 6. Mislead\tab Turns the caster invisible and creates illusory double. 
\par 7. Spell Turning\tab Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 
\par 8. Holy Aura\tab +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells. 
\par 9. Miracle\tab Requests a deity's intercession. 
\par 
\par Magic Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: Use scrolls, wands, and other devices with spell completion or s
pell trigger activation as a wizard of one-half the character\rquote 
s cleric level (at least 1st level). For the purpose of using a scroll or other magic device, if the character is also a wizard, actual wizard levels and these effective wizard levels stack.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Undetectable Aura \tab Masks magic item's aura. 
\par 2. Identify \tab Determines single feature of magic item. 
\par 3. Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par 4. Imbue with Spell Ability \tab Transfer spells to subject. 
\par 5. Spell Resistance \tab Subject gains +12 +1/level SR. 
\par 6. Antimagic Field\tab Negates magic within 10 ft. 
\par 7. Spell Turning\tab Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 
\par 8. Protection from Spells\tab Confers +8 resistance bonus. 
\par 9. Disjunction\tab Dispels magic, disenchants magic items. 
\par 
\par Plant Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Powers: Rebuke or command plant creatures as an evil cleric rebukes or commands undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + the character\rquote s Charisma modifier.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par Knowledge (nature) is a class skill.
\par 
\par 1. Entangle \tab Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius circle. 
\par 2. Barkskin \tab Grants +3 natural armor bonus (or higher). 
\par 3. Plant Growth\tab Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
\par 4. Control Plants\tab Talk to and control plants & fungi. 
\par 5. Wall of Thorns\tab Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass. 
\par 6. Repel Wood\tab Pushes away wooden objects. 
\par 7. Changestaff\tab The caster\rquote s staff becomes a treant on command. 
\par 8. Command Plants\tab Plants animate and vegetation entangles. 
\par 9. Shambler\tab Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for the caster. 
\par 
\par Protection Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Power: The character can generate a protective ward, a spell-like ability to grant someone the character touches a resistance bonus equal to the character\rquote s level on the recipient\rquote 
s next saving throw. Activating this power is a standard action. The protective ward is an abjuration effect with a duration of 1 hour that is usable once per day.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Sanctuary\tab Opponents can't attack the caster, and the caster can't attack. 
\par 2. Shield Other\tab The caster takes half of subject's damage. 
\par 3. Protection from Elements \tab Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par 4. Spell Immunity\tab Subject is immune to one spell/four levels. 
\par 5. Spell Resistance\tab Subject gains +12 +1/level SR. 
\par 6. Antimagic Field\tab Negates magic within 10 ft. 
\par 7. Repulsion\tab Creatures can't approach the caster. 
\par 8. Mind Blank\tab Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic and scrying. 
\par 9. Prismatic Sphere\tab As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all sides. 
\par 
\par Strength Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: The character can perform a feat of strength,
 which is the supernatural ability to gain an enhancement bonus to Strength equal to the character\rquote s level. Activating the power is a free action, the power lasts 1 round, and is usable once per day. 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Endure Elements \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par 2. Bull\rquote s Strength \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Str for 1 hr./level. 
\par 3. Magic Vestment \tab Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement three level. 
\par 4. Spell Immunity \tab Subject is immune to one spell/four levels. 
\par 5. Righteous Might \tab The caster\rquote s size increases, and the caster gains +4 Str. 
\par 6. Stoneskin \tab Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes. 
\par 7. Grasping Hand \tab Hand provides cover, pushes, or grapples. 
\par 8. Clenched Fist \tab Large hand attacks the caster\rquote s foes. 
\par 9. Crushing Hand \tab As grasping hand, but stronger. 
\par 
\par Sun Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Granted Power: Once per day, the character can perform a greater turning against undead in place of a regular turning (or rebuking) attempt. The greater turning is like a normal turning (or rebuking) attempt except that the undead creatures that
 would be turned (or rebuked or commanded) are destroyed instead.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Endure Elements.* \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par 2. Heat Metal \tab Make metal so hot it damages those that touch it. 
\par 3. Searing Light \tab Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead. 
\par 4. Fire Shield\tab Creatures attacking the caster take fire damage; the caster is protected from heat or cold. 
\par 5. Flame Strike\tab Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level). 
\par 6. Fire Seeds\tab Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 
\par 7. Sunbeam\tab Beam blinds and deals 3d6 damage. 
\par 8. Sunburst\tab Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 3d6 damage. 
\par 9. Prismatic Sphere\tab As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all sides. 
\par }{*Endure cold or fire only.}{\fs22 
\par 
\par Travel Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Powers: For a totaltime per day of 1 round per the character\rquote 
s cleric level, the character can act normally regardless of magical effects that impede movement (similar to the effect of the spell freedom of movement). This effect occurs automatically as soon as it applies, lasts until it runs out or i
s no longer needed, and can operate multiple times per day (up to the total daily limit of rounds). This is a spell-like ability.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par Wilderness Lore is a class skill.
\par 
\par 1. Expeditious Retreat \tab Doubles the caster\rquote s speed. 
\par 2. Locate Object \tab Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
\par 3. Fly \tab Subject flies at speed of 90. 
\par 4. Dimension Door \tab Teleports the caster and up to 500 lb. 
\par 5. Teleport \tab Instantly transports the caster anywhere. 
\par 6. Find the Path \tab Shows most direct way to a location. 
\par 7. Teleport without Error \tab As teleport, but no off-target arrival. 
\par 8. Phase Door \tab Invisible passage through wood or stone. 
\par 9. Astral Projection \tab Projects the caster and companions into Astral Plane. 
\par 
\par Trickery Domain
\par 
\par Granted Power: Bluff, Disguise, and Hide are class skills.
\par 
\par 1. Change Self \tab Change own appearance. 
\par 2. Invisibility \tab Subject invisible 10 min./level or until it attacks. 
\par 3. Nondetection \tab Hides subject from divination, scrying. 
\par 4. Confusion \tab Makes subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level. 
\par 5. False Vision \tab Fools scrying with an illusion. 
\par 6. Mislead \tab Turns the caster invisible and creates illusory double. 
\par 7. Screen \tab Illusion hides area from vision, scrying. 
\par 8. Polymorph Any Object \tab Changes any subject into anything else. 
\par 9. Time Stop \tab The caster acts freely for 1d4+1 rounds. 
\par 
\par War Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: Free Martial Weapon Proficiency (if necessary) and Weapon Focus with the deity\rquote 
s favored weapon.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {\fs22 1. Magic Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par 2. Spiritual Weapon \tab Magical weapon attacks on its own.. 
\par 3. Magic Vestment \tab Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement/three levels. 
\par 4. Divine Power \tab The caster gain attack bonus, 18 Str, and 1 hp/level. 
\par 5. Flame Strike \tab Smite foes with divine fire (1d6 damage/level). 
\par 6. Blade Barrier \tab Blades encircling the caster deal 1d6 damage/level. 
\par 7. Power Word, Stun \tab Stuns creature with up to 150 hp. 
\par 8. Power Word, Blind \tab Blinds 200 hp worth of creatures. 
\par 9. Power Word, Kill \tab Kills one tough subject or many weak ones. 
\par 
\par Water Domain
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Granted Power: Turn or destroy 
fire creatures as a good cleric turns undead. Rebuke or command water creatures as an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of times per day equal to 3 + the character\rquote s Charisma modifier.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-2880\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 
\par 1. Obscuring Mist \tab Fog surrounds the caster. 
\par 2. Fog Cloud \tab Fog obscures vision. 
\par 3. Water Breathing \tab Subjects can breathe underwater. 
\par 4. Control Water \tab Raise or lower bodies of water. 
\par 5. Ice Storm \tab Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. 
\par 6. Cone of Cold \tab 1d6 cold damage/level. 
\par 7. Acid Fog \tab Fog deals acid damage. 
\par 8. Horrid Wilting \tab Deals 1d8 damage/level within 30 ft. 
\par 9. Elemental Swarm.* \tab Summons multiple elementals. 
\par *Cast as a water spell only.
\par 
\par DRUID SPELLS
\par 
\par 0-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS (Orisons) 
\par Create Water \tab Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 
\par Cure Minor Wounds \tab Cures 1 point of damage. 
\par Detect Magic \tab Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.. 
\par Detect Poison \tab Detects poison in one creature or small object. 
\par Flare \tab Dazzles one creature (-1 attack). 
\par Guidance \tab +1 on one roll, throw, or check. 
\par Know Direction \tab The caster discerns north. 
\par Light \tab Object shines like a torch. 
\par Mending \tab Makes minor repairs on an object. 
\par Purify Food and Drink \tab Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water. 
\par Read Magic\tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par Resistance\tab Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
\par Virtue \tab Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 
\par     
\par 1st-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Animal Friendship \tab Gains permanent animal companions. 
\par Calm Animals \tab Calms 2d4 +1/level HD of animals, beasts, and magical beasts. 
\par Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Detect Animals or Plants\tab Detects species of animals or plants. 
\par Detect Snares and Pits \tab Reveals natural or primitive traps. 
\par Endure Elements \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Entangle \tab Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius circle. 
\par Faerie Fire \tab Outlines subjects with light, canceling blur, concealment, etc. 
\par Goodberry \tab 2d4 berries each cure 1 hp (max 8 hp/24 hours). 
\par Invisibility to Animals \tab Animals can't perceive one subject/level. 
\par Magic Fang \tab One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 bonus to attack and damage. 
\par Obscuring Mist \tab Fog surrounds the caster. 
\par Pass without Trace \tab One subject/level leaves no tracks. 
\par Shillelagh \tab Cudgel or quarterstaff becomes +1 weapon (1d10 damage) for 1 minute/level. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally I \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par     
\par 2nd-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Animal Messenger \tab Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
\par Animal Trance \tab Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals. 
\par Barkskin \tab Grants +3 natural armor bonus (or higher). 
\par Charm Person or Animal \tab Makes one person or animal the caster\rquote s friend. 
\par Chill Metal \tab Cold metal damages those who touch it. 
\par Delay Poison \tab Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 
\par Fire Trap \tab Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage. 
\par Flame Blade \tab Touch attack deals 1d8 +1/two levels damage. 
\par Flaming Sphere \tab Rolling ball of fire, 2d6 damage, lasts 1 round/level. 
\par Heat Metal \tab Hot metal damages those who touch it. 
\par Hold Animal \tab Holds one animal helpless; 1 round/level. 
\par Lesser Restoration \tab Dispels magic ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage. 
\par Produce Flame \tab 1d4 +1/two levels damage, touch or thrown. 
\par Resist Elements \tab Ignores first 12 damage from one energy type each round. 
\par Soften Earth and Stone \tab Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or mud. 
\par Speak with Animals\tab The caster can communicate with natural animals. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally II \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Summon Swarm \tab Summons swarm of small crawling or flying creatures. 
\par Tree Shape\tab The caster looks exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level. 
\par Warp Wood \tab Bends wood (shaft, handle, door, plank). 
\par Wood Shape\tab Rearranges wooden objects to suit the caster. 
\par     
\par 3rd-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Call Lightning \tab Directs lightning bolts (1d10/level) during storms. 
\par Contagion \tab Infects subject with chosen disease. 
\par Cure Moderate Wounds\tab  Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10). 
\par Diminish Plants \tab Reduces size or blights growth of normal plants. 
\par Dominate Animal \tab Subject animal obeys silent mental commands. 
\par Greater Magic Fang \tab One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 bonus to attack and damage per three caster levels (max +5) 
\par Meld into Stone \tab The caster and the caster\rquote s gear merge with stone. 
\par Neutralize Poison \tab Detoxifies venom in or on subject. 
\par Plant Growth \tab Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
\par Poison \tab Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min. 
\par Protection from Elements \tab Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par Remove Disease \tab Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
\par Snare \tab Creates a magical booby trap. 
\par Speak with Plants \tab The caster can talk to normal plants and plant creatures. 
\par Spike Growth \tab Creatures in area take 1d4 damage, may be slowed. 
\par Stone Shape \tab Sculpts stone into any form. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally III \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Water Breathing \tab Subjects can breathe underwater. 
\par     
\par 4th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Antiplant Shell\tab Keeps animated plants at bay. 
\par Control Plants \tab Talk to and control plants & fungi. 
\par Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par Flame Strike \tab Smites foes with divine fire (1d6/level). 
\par Freedom of Movement\tab Subject moves normally despite impediments. 
\par Giant Vermin \tab Turns insects into giant vermin. 
\par Quench \tab Extinguishes nonmagical fires or one magic item. 
\par Reincarnate\tab Brings dead subject back in a random body. 
\par Repel Vermin \tab Insects stay 10 ft. away. 
\par Rusting Grasp \tab The caster\rquote s touch corrodes iron and alloys. 
\par Scrying\tab Spies on subject from a distance. 
\par Sleet Storm \tab Hampers vision and movement. 
\par Spike Stones \tab Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be slowed. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally IV \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par     
\par 5th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Animal Growth \tab One animal/two levels doubles in size, HD. 
\par Atonement\tab Removes burden of misdeeds from subject. 
\par Awaken \tab Animal or tree gains human intellect. 
\par Commune with Nature\tab Learn about terrain for one mile/level. 
\par Control Winds \tab Change wind direction and speed. 
\par Cure Critical Wounds \tab Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +20). 
\par Death Ward \tab Grants immunity to all death spells and effects. 
\par Hallow \tab Designates location as holy. 
\par Ice Storm \tab Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. 
\par Insect Plague\tab Insect horde limits vision, inflicts damage, and weak creatures flee. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally V\tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Transmute Mud to Rock\tab Transforms two 10-ft. cubes/level. 
\par Transmute Rock to Mud \tab Transforms two 10-ft. cubes/level. 
\par Tree Stride\tab Step from one tree to another far away. 
\par Unhallow \tab Designates location as unholy. 
\par Wall of Fire \tab Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level. 
\par Wall of Thorns \tab Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass. 
\par     
\par 6th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Antilife Shell \tab 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures. 
\par Find the Path \tab Shows most direct way to a location. 
\par Fire Seeds \tab Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 
\par Greater Dispelling \tab As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
\par Healing Circle\tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage in all directions. 
\par Ironwood \tab Magical wood is strong as steel. 
\par Liveoak \tab Oak becomes treant guardian. 
\par Repel Wood \tab Pushes away wooden objects. 
\par Spellstaff \tab Stores one spell in wooden quarterstaff. 
\par Stone Tell \tab Talk to natural or worked stone. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally VI \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Transport via Plants \tab Move instantly from one plant to another of the same species. 
\par Wall of Stone \tab Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
\par     
\par 7th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Changestaff \tab The caster\rquote s staff becomes a treant on command. 
\par Control Weather \tab Changes weather in local area. 
\par Creeping Doom \tab Carpet of insects attacks at the caster\rquote s command. 
\par Fire Storm \tab Deals 1d6 fire damage/level. 
\par Greater Scrying \tab As scrying, but faster and longer. 
\par Harm \tab Subject loses all but 1d4 hp. 
\par Heal \tab Cures all damage, diseases, and mental conditions. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally VII \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Sunbeam \tab Beam blinds and deals 3d6 damage. 
\par Transmute Metal to Wood \tab Metal within 40 ft. becomes wood. 
\par True Seeing \tab See all things as they really are. 
\par Wind Walk \tab The caster and the caster\rquote s allies turn vaporous and travel fast. 
\par     
\par 8th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Animal Shapes \tab One ally/level polymorphs into chosen animal. 
\par Command Plants \tab Plants animate and vegetation entangles. 
\par Finger of Death \tab Kills one subject. 
\par Repel Metal or Stone \tab Pushes away metal and stone. 
\par Reverse Gravity \tab Objects and creatures fall upward. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally VIII \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Sunburst \tab Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 3d6 damage. 
\par Whirlwind \tab Cyclone inflicts damage and can pick up creatures. 
\par Word of Recall \tab Teleports the caster back to designated place. 
\par     
\par 9th-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
\par Antipathy \tab Object or location affected by spell repels certain creatures. 
\par Earthquake \tab Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
\par Elemental Swarm \tab Summons multiple elementals. 
\par Foresight \tab "Sixth sense" warns of impending danger. 
\par Mass Heal \tab As heal, but with several subjects. 
\par Shambler \tab Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for the caster. 
\par Shapechange \tab Transforms the caster into any creature, and change forms once per round. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally IX \tab Calls creature to fight. 
\par Sympathy \tab Object or location attracts certain creatures. 
\par 
\par PALADIN SPELLS
\par 
\par 1st-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 
\par Bless \tab Allies gain +1 attack and +1 on saves against fear. 
\par Bless Water \tab Makes holy water. 
\par Bless Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par Create Water \tab Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 
\par Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Detect Poison \tab Detects poison in one creature or small object. 
\par Detect Undead \tab Reveals undead within 60 ft. 
\par Divine Favor \tab The caster gains attack, damage bonus, +1/three levels. 
\par Endure Elements \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Magic Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par Protection from Evil \tab +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
\par Read Magic \tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par Resistance \tab Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
\par Virtue \tab Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 
\par     
\par 2nd-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 
\par Delay Poison\tab Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 
\par Remove Paralysis \tab Frees one or more creatures from paralysis, hold or slow. 
\par Resist Elements \tab Ignores 12 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Shield Other \tab The caster takes half of subject's damage. 
\par Undetectable Alignment \tab Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
\par     
\par 3rd-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 
\par Cure Moderate Wounds \tab Cures 2d8 +1/level (max +10). 
\par Discern Lies \tab Reveals deliberate falsehoods. 
\par Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par Greater Magic Weapon\tab +1 bonus/three levels (max +5). 
\par Heal Mount \tab As heal on warhorse or other mount. 
\par Magic Circle against Evil \tab As protection spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 
\par Prayer \tab Allies gain +1 on most rolls, enemies suffer -1. 
\par Remove Blindness/Deafness \tab Cures normal or magical conditions. 
\par     
\par 4th-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 
\par Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level (max +15*). 
\par Death Ward \tab Grants immunity to death spells and effects. 
\par Dispel Evil \tab +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures. 
\par Freedom of Movement \tab Subject moves normally despite impediments. 
\par Holy Sword \tab Weapon becomes +5, does double damage against evil. 
\par Neutralize Poison \tab Detoxifies venom in or on subject. 
\par *Paladin's maximum effective caster level is 10 
\par 
\par RANGER SPELLS
\par 
\par 1st-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 
\par Alarm \tab Wards an area for 2 hours/level. 
\par Animal Friendship \tab Gains permanent animal companions. 
\par Delay Poison \tab Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 
\par Detect Animals or Plants \tab Detects species of animals or plants. 
\par Detect Snares and Pits \tab Reveals natural or primitive traps. 
\par Entangle \tab Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius circle. 
\par Magic Fang \tab One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 bonus to attack and damage. 
\par Pass without Trace \tab One subject/level leaves no tracks. 
\par Read Magic \tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par Resist Elements \tab Ignores first 12 damage from one energy type each round. 
\par Speak with Animals \tab The caster can communicate with natural animals. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally I \tab Calls animal to fight for the caster. 
\par     \tab 
\par 2nd-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 
\par Animal Messenger \tab Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
\par Cure Light Wounds \tab Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5). 
\par Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law \tab Reveals creatures, spells, or objects. 
\par Hold Animal \tab Holds one animal helpless; 1 round/level. 
\par Protection from Elements \tab Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par Sleep \tab Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber. 
\par Snare \tab Creates a magical booby trap. 
\par Speak with Plants \tab The caster can talk to normal plants and plant creatures. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally II \tab Calls animal to fight for the caster. 
\par     
\par 3rd-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 
\par Control Plants \tab Talk to and control plants & fungi.
\par Cure Moderate Wounds\tab Cures 2d8+1/level damage (max +10). 
\par Diminish Plants \tab Reduces size or blights growth of normal plants. 
\par Greater Magic Fang \tab One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 bonus to attack and damage per three caster levels (max +5). 
\par Neutralize Poison \tab Detoxifies venom in or on subject. 
\par Plant Growth \tab Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
\par Remove Disease \tab Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally III \tab Calls animal to fight for the caster. 
\par Tree Shape \tab The caster looks exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level. 
\par Water Walk \tab Subject treads on water as if solid. 
\par     
\par 4th-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 
\par Cure Serious Wounds \tab Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +15). 
\par Freedom of Movement  \tab Subject moves normally despite impediments. 
\par Nondetection \tab Hides subject from divination, scrying. 
\par Polymorph Self \tab The caster assumes a new form. 
\par Summon Nature's Ally IV \tab Calls animal to fight for the caster. 
\par Tree Stride \tab Step from one tree to another far away. 
\par Wind Wall \tab Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 
\par }}