{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \fi-1800\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text 2;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells II}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo7\dy18\hr16\min2}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min16}{\version25}{\edmins52}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords3280}{\nofchars18699}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws22963}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20\ul 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS II
\par 
\par SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS
\par 
\par 0-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS (Cantrips)   
\par Abjur     \tab Resistance \tab Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
\par Conj    \tab Ray of Frost\tab Ray deals 1d3 cold damage. 
\par Div       \tab Detect Poison \tab Detects poison in one creature or small object. 
\par Ench      \tab Daze \tab \tab Creature loses next action. 
\par Evoc      \tab Dancing Lights \tab Figment torches or other lights.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Flare \tab \tab Dazzles one creature (-1 attack). 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Light \tab \tab Object shines like a torch. 
\par Illus     \tab Ghost Sound \tab Figment sounds. 
\par Necro     \tab Disrupt Undead \tab Deals 1d6 damage to one undead. 
\par Trans     \tab Mage Hand \tab 5-pound telekinesis. 
\par            \tab Mending \tab \tab Makes minor repairs on an object. 
\par            \tab Open/Close \tab Opens or closes small or light things. 
\par Univ      \tab Arcane Mark \tab Inscribes a personal rune (visible or invisible). 
\par            \tab Detect Magic \tab Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft. 
\par            \tab Prestidigitation \tab Performs minor tricks. 
\par            \tab Read Magic \tab Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
\par       
\par 1st-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Alarm \tab \tab Wards an area for 2 hours/level. 
\par            \tab Endure Elements \tab Ignores 5 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par            \tab Hold Portal \tab Holds door shut. 
\par            \tab Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law +2 AC and saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
\par            \tab Shield \tab \tab Invisible disc gives cover and blocks magic missiles. 
\par Conj      \tab Grease \tab \tab Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery. 
\par            \tab Mage Armor \tab Gives subject +4 armor bonus. 
\par           \tab Mount \tab \tab Summons riding horse for 2 hr./level. 
\par            \tab Obscuring Mist \tab Fog surrounds }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster I Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par            \tab Unseen Servant \tab Creates invisible force that obeys }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s commands. 
\par Div       \tab Comprehend Languages Understands all spoken and written languages. 
\par            \tab Detect Secret \tab Doors Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 
\par            \tab Detect Undead \tab Reveals undead within 60 ft. 
\par            \tab Identify \tab \tab Determines single feature of magic item. 
\par            \tab True Strike \tab Adds +20 bonus to }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s next attack roll. 
\par Ench      \tab Charm Person \tab Makes one person }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s friend. 
\par            \tab Hypnotism \tab Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures. 
\par            \tab Sleep \tab \tab Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber. 
\par Evoc      \tab Floating Disk \tab 3-ft.-diameter horizontal disk that holds 100 lb./level. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Magic Missile \tab 1d4+1 damage; +1 missile/two levels above 1st (max 5). 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Illus     \tab Change Self \tab Changes }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s appearance. 
\par            \tab Color Spray \tab Knocks unconscious, blinds, or stuns 1d6 weak creatures. 
\par            \tab Magical Aura \tab Grants object false magic aura. 
\par            \tab Silent Image \tab Creates minor illusion of }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s design. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Undetectable Aura Masks magic item's aura. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Ventriloquism \tab Throws voice for 1 min./level. 
\par Necro     \tab Cause Fear \tab One creature flees for 1d4 rounds. 
\par            \tab Chill Touch \tab 1 touch/level deals 1d6 damage and possibly 1 Str damage. 
\par            \tab Ray of Enfeeblement Ray reduces Str by 1d6 points +1 point/two levels. 
\par Trans     \tab Animate Rope \tab Makes a rope move at }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s command. 
\par            \tab Burning Hands \tab 1d4 fire damage/level (max: 5d4). 
\par            \tab Enlarge \tab \tab Object or creature grows +10%/level (max +50%). 
\par            \tab Erase \tab \tab Mundane or magical writing vanishes. 
\par            \tab Expeditious Retreat Doubles }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s speed. 
\par            \tab Feather Fall \tab Objects or creatures fall slowly. 
\par            \tab Jump \tab \tab Subject gets +30 on Jump checks. 
\par            \tab Magic Weapon \tab Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
\par            \tab Message \tab \tab Whispered conversation at distance. 
\par            \tab Reduce \tab \tab Object or creature shrinks 10%/level (max 50%). 
\par            \tab Shocking Grasp \tab Touch delivers 1d8 +1/level electricity. 
\par            \tab Spider Climb \tab Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings. 
\par       
\par 2ND-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Arcane Lock \tab Magically locks a portal or chest. 
\par            \tab Obscure Object \tab Masks object against divination. 
\par            \tab Protection from Arrows Subject immune to most ranged attacks. 
\par            \tab Resist Elements \tab Ignores 12 damage/round from one energy type. 
\par Conj      \tab Acid Arrow \tab Ranged touch attack; 2d4 damage for 1 round + 1 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {round/three levels. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Fog Cloud \tab Fog obscures vision. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Glitterdust \tab Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster II Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par            \tab Summon Swarm \tab Summons swarm of small crawling or flying creatures. 
\par            \tab Web \tab \tab Fills 20-ft-radius spread with sticky spider webs. 
\par Div       \tab Detect Thoughts \tab Allows "listening" to surface thoughts. 
\par            \tab Locate Object \tab Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
\par            \tab See Invisibility \tab Reveals invisible creatures or objects. 
\par Ench      \tab Hideous Laughter \tab Subject loses actions for 1d3 rounds. 
\par Evoc      \tab Continual Flame \tab Makes a permanent, heatless torch. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Darkness \tab \tab 20-ft. radius of supernatural darkness. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Daylight \tab \tab 60-ft. radius of bright light. 
\par            \tab Flaming Sphere \tab Rolling ball of fire, 2d6 damage, lasts 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Shatter \tab \tab Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
\par Illus     \tab Blur \tab \tab Attacks miss subject 20% of the time. 
\par            \tab Hypnotic Pattern \tab Fascinates 2d4+1 HD/level of creatures. 
\par            \tab Invisibility \tab Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks. 
\par            \tab Magic Mouth \tab Speaks once when triggered. 
\par            \tab Minor Image \tab As silent image, plus some sound. 
\par            \tab Mirror Image \tab Creates decoy duplicates of }{\fs22 the caster}{ (1d4 +1/three levels, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {max 8). 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Misdirection \tab Misleads divinations for one creature or object. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Trap \tab \tab Makes item seem trapped. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Necro     \tab Ghoul Touch \tab Paralyzes one subject, who exudes stench (-2 penalty) 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {nearby. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Scare \tab \tab Panics creatures up to 5 HD (15-ft. radius). 
\par            \tab Spectral Hand \tab Creates disembodied glowing hand to deliver touch attacks. 
\par Trans     \tab Alter Self \tab \tab As change self, plus more drastic changes. 
\par            \tab Blindness/Deafness Makes subject blind or deaf. 
\par            \tab Bull's Strength \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Str for 1 hr./level. 
\par            \tab Cat's Grace \tab Subject gains 1d4+1 Dex for 1 hr./level. 
\par           \tab Darkvision \tab See 60 ft. in total darkness. 
\par            \tab Endurance \tab Gain 1d4+1 Con for 1 hr./level. 
\par            \tab Knock \tab \tab Opens locked or magically sealed door. 
\par            \tab Levitate \tab \tab Subject moves up and down at }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s direction. 
\par            \tab Pyrotechnics \tab Turns fire into blinding light or choking smoke. 
\par            \tab Rope Trick \tab Up to eight creatures hide in extradimensional space. 
\par            \tab Whispering Wind \tab Sends a short message one mile/level. 
\par       
\par 3rd-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Dispel Magic \tab Cancels magical spells and effects. 
\par            \tab Explosive Runes \tab Deals 6d6 damage when read. 
\par            \tab Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law As protection spells, but 10-ft. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {radius and 10 min./level. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Nondetection \tab Hides subject from divination, scrying. 
\par            \tab Protection from Elements Absorb 12 damage/level from one kind of energy. 
\par Conj      \tab Flame Arrow \tab Shoots flaming projectiles (extra damage) or fiery bolts 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li3240\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3240\itap0 {(4d6 damage). 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Phantom Steed \tab Magical horse appears for 1 hour/level. 
\par            \tab Sepia Snake Sigil \tab Creates text symbol that immobilizes reader. 
\par            \tab Sleet Storm \tab Hampers vision and movement. 
\par            \tab Stinking Cloud \tab Nauseating vapors, 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster III Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Div       \tab Clairaudience/Clairvoyance Hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level. 
\par            \tab Tongues \tab \tab Speak any language. 
\par Ench      \tab Hold Person \tab Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Suggestion \tab Compels subject to follow stated course of action. 
\par Evoc      \tab Fireball \tab \tab 1d6 damage per level, 20-ft. radius. 
\par            \tab Gust of Wind \tab Blows away or knocks down smaller creatures. 
\par            \tab Lightning Bolt \tab Electricity deals 1d6 damage/level. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Tiny Hut \tab \tab Creates shelter for 10 creatures.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Wind Wall \tab Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 
\par Illus     \tab Displacement \tab Attacks miss subject 50%. 
\par            \tab Illusory Script \tab Only intended reader can decipher. 
\par            \tab Invisibility Sphere Makes everyone within 10 ft. invisible. 
\par            \tab Major Image \tab As silent image, plus sound, smell and thermal effects. 
\par Necro     \tab Gentle Repose \tab Preserves one corpse. 
\par            \tab Halt Undead \tab Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Vampiric Touch \tab Touch deals 1d6/two caster levels; caster gains damage as 
\par }\pard \ql \li3240\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3240\itap0 {hp. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Trans     \tab Blink \tab \tab }{\fs22 The caster}{ randomly vanishes and reappears for 1 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-360\li3240\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin3240\itap0 {round/level. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Fly \tab \tab Subject flies at speed of 90. 
\par            \tab Gaseous Form \tab Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly. 
\par            \tab Greater Magic Weapon +1/three levels (max +5). 
\par            \tab Haste \tab \tab Extra partial action and +4 AC. 
\par            \tab Keen Edge \tab Doubles normal weapon's threat range. 
\par           \tab Secret Page \tab Changes one page to hide its real content. 
\par            \tab Shrink Item \tab Object shrinks to one-twelfth size. 
\par            \tab Slow \tab \tab One subject/level takes only partial actions, -2 AC, -2 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {melee rolls. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Water Breathing \tab Subjects can breathe underwater. 
\par       
\par 4th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Dimensional Anchor Bars extradimensional movement. 
\par            \tab Fire Trap \tab \tab Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage. 
\par            \tab Minor Globe of Invulnerability Stops 1st- through 3rd-level spell effects. 
\par            \tab Remove Curse \tab Frees object or person from curse. 
\par            \tab Stoneskin \tab \tab Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes. 
\par Conj      \tab Black Tentacles \tab 1d4 +1/level tentacles grapple randomly within 15 ft. 
\par            \tab Minor Creation \tab Creates one cloth or wood object. 
\par           \tab Secure Shelter \tab Creates sturdy cottage.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Solid Fog \tab \tab Blocks vision and slows movement. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Summon Monster IV Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Div       \tab Arcane Eye \tab Invisible floating eye moves 30 ft./round. 
\par            \tab Detect Scrying \tab Alerts }{\fs22 the caster}{ of magical eavesdropping. 
\par            \tab Locate Creature \tab Indicates direction to familiar creature. 
\par            \tab Scrying \tab \tab Spies on subject from a distance. 
\par Ench      \tab Charm Monster \tab Makes monster believe it is }{\fs22 the caster\rquote s}{ ally. 
\par            \tab Confusion \tab \tab Makes subject behave oddly for 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Emotion \tab \tab Arouses strong emotion in subject. 
\par            \tab Lesser Geas \tab Commands subject of 7 HD or less. 
\par Evoc      \tab Fire Shield \tab Creatures attacking }{\fs22 the caster}{ take fire damage; }{\fs22 the caster}{ is 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {protected from heat or cold. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Ice Storm \tab \tab Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. 
\par            \tab Resilient Sphere \tab Force globe protects but traps one subject. 
\par            \tab Shout \tab \tab Deafens all within cone and deals 2d6 damage. 
\par            \tab Wall of Fire \tab Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to  20 ft. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Wall of Ice \tab Ice plane creates wall with 15 hp +3/level, or hemisphere 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {can trap creatures inside. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Illus     \tab Hallucinatory Terrain Makes one type of terrain appear like another (field into 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {forest, etc.). 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Illusory Wall \tab Wall, floor, or ceiling looks real, but anything can pass 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {through. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Improved Invisibility As invisibility, but subject can attack and stay invisible. 
\par            \tab Phantasmal Killer Fearsome illusion kills subject or deals 3d6 damage. 
\par            \tab Rainbow Pattern \tab Lights prevent 24 HD of creatures from attacking or 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {moving away. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Shadow Conjuration Mimics conjuring below 4th level. 
\par Necro     \tab Contagion \tab \tab Infects subject with chosen disease. 
\par            \tab Enervation \tab Subject gains 1d4 negative levels. 
\par            \tab Fear \tab \tab Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level. 
\par Trans     \tab Bestow Curse \tab -6 to an ability; -4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {chance of losing each action. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Dimension Door \tab Teleports }{\fs22 the caster}{ and up to 500 lb. 
\par            \tab Mnemonic Enhancer Prepares extra spells or retains one just cast.  Wizard 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {only. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Polymorph Other \tab Gives one subject a new form. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Polymorph Self \tab }{\fs22 The caster}{ assumes a new form. 
\par            \tab       
\par 5th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Dismissal \tab \tab Forces a creature to return to native plane. 
\par Conj      \tab Cloudkill \tab \tab Kills 3 HD or less; 4-6 HD save or die. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Faithful Hound \tab Phantom dog can guard, attack.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Lesser Planar Binding Traps outsider until it performs a task. 
\par            \tab Major Creation \tab As minor creation, plus stone and metal. 
\par            \tab            \tab Summon Monster V Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Secret Chest \tab Hides expensive chest on Ethereal Plane; }{\fs22 the caster}{ retrieves 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {it at will.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Wall of Iron \tab 30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes. 
\par            \tab Wall of Stone \tab Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
\par Div       \tab Contact Other Plane Ask question of extraplanar entity. 
\par            \tab Prying Eyes \tab 1d4 floating eyes +1/level scout for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par            \tab Telepathic Bond \tab Link lets allies communicate. 
\par Ench      \tab Dominate Person \tab Controls humanoid telepathically. 
\par            \tab Feeblemind\tab Subject's Int drops to 1. 
\par            \tab Hold Monster \tab As hold person, but any creature. 
\par            \tab Mind Fog \tab \tab Subjects in fog get -10 Wis, Will checks. 
\par Evoc      \tab Cone of Cold \tab 1d6 cold damage/level. 
\par            \tab Interposing Hand \tab Hand provides 90% cover against one opponent.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Sending \tab \tab Delivers short message anywhere, instantly. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Wall of Force \tab Wall is immune to damage. 
\par Illus     \tab Dream \tab \tab Sends message to anyone sleeping. 
\par            \tab False Vision \tab Fools scrying with an illusion. 
\par            \tab Greater Shadow Conjuration As shadow conjuration, but up to 4th level and 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {40% real. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Mirage Arcana \tab As hallucinatory terrain, plus structures. 
\par            \tab Nightmare \tab Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue. 
\par            \tab Persistent Image \tab As major image, but no concentration required. 
\par            \tab Seeming \tab \tab Changes appearance of one person/two levels. 
\par            \tab Shadow Evocation Mimics evocation less than 5th level. 
\par Necro     \tab Animate Dead \tab Creates undead skeletons and zombies. 
\par            \tab Magic Jar \tab \tab Enables possession of another creature. 
\par Trans     \tab Animal Growth \tab One animal/two levels doubles in size, HD. 
\par            \tab Fabricate \tab \tab Transforms raw materials into finished items. 
\par            \tab Passwall \tab \tab Breaches walls 1 ft. thick/level. 
\par            \tab Stone Shape \tab Sculpts stone into any form. 
\par            \tab Telekinesis \tab Lifts or moves 25 lb./level at long range. 
\par            \tab Teleport \tab \tab Instantly transports }{\fs22 the caster}{ anywhere. 
\par            \tab Transmute Mud to Rock Transforms two 10-ft. cubes/level. 
\par            \tab Transmute Rock to Mud Transforms two 10-ft. cubes/level. 
\par Univ      \tab Permanency \tab Makes certain spells permanent; costs XP. 
\par       
\par 6th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Antimagic Field \tab Negates magic within 10 ft. 
\par            \tab Globe of Invulnerability As minor globe, plus 4th level. 
\par            \tab Greater Dispelling As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
\par            \tab Guards and Wards Array of magic effects protect area. 
\par            \tab Repulsion \tab \tab Creatures can't approach }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Conj      \tab Acid Fog \tab \tab Fog deals acid damage. 
\par            \tab Planar Binding \tab As lesser planar binding, but up to 16 HD. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster VI Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Div       \tab Analyze Dweomer Reveals magical aspects of subject. 
\par            \tab Legend Lore \tab Learn tales about a person, place, or thing. 
\par            \tab True Seeing \tab See all things as they really are. 
\par Ench      \tab Geas/Quest \tab As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
\par            \tab Mass Suggestion \tab As suggestion, plus one/level subjects. 
\par Evoc      \tab Chain Lightning \tab 1d6 damage/level; secondary bolts. 
\par            \tab Contingency \tab Sets trigger condition for another spell. 
\par            \tab Forceful Hand \tab Hand pushes creatures away.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Freezing Sphere \tab Freezes water or deals cold damage. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Illus     \tab Greater Shadow Evocation As shadow evocation, but up to 5th level. 
\par            \tab Mislead \tab \tab Turns }{\fs22 the caster}{ invisible and creates illusory double. 
\par            \tab Permanent Image \tab Includes sight, sound, and smell. 
\par           \tab Programmed Image As major image, plus triggered by event. 
\par            \tab Project Image \tab Illusory double can talk and cast spells. 
\par            \tab Shades \tab \tab As shadow conjuration, but up to 5th level and 60% real. 
\par            \tab Veil \tab \tab Changes appearance of group of creatures. 
\par Necro     \tab Circle of Death \tab Kills 1d4 HD/level. 
\par Trans     \tab Control Water \tab Raises or lowers bodies of water. 
\par            \tab Control Weather \tab Changes weather in local area. 
\par            \tab Disintegrate \tab Makes one creature or object vanish. 
\par            \tab Eyebite \tab \tab Charm, fear, sicken or sleep one subject. 
\par            \tab Flesh to Stone \tab Turns subject creature into statue. 
\par            \tab Lucubration \tab Recalls spell of 5th level or less. Wizard Only.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Mass Haste \tab As haste, affects one/level subjects. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Move Earth \tab Digs trenches and build hills. 
\par            \tab Stone to Flesh \tab Restores petrified creature. 
\par            \tab Transformation \tab }{\fs22 The caster}{ gains combat bonuses. 
\par       
\par 7th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Banishment \tab Banishes 2 HD/level extraplanar creatures. 
\par            \tab Sequester \tab \tab Subject is invisible to sight and scrying. 
\par            \tab Spell Turning \tab Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 
\par Conj      \tab Instant Summons \tab Prepared object appears in }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s hand. 
\par            \tab Magnificent Mansion Door leads to extradimensional mansion. 
\par            \tab Phase Door \tab Invisible passage through wood or stone. 
\par            \tab Power Word, Stun Stuns creature with up to 150 hp. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster VII Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Div       \tab Greater Scrying \tab As scrying, but faster and longer. 
\par            \tab Vision \tab \tab As legend lore, but quicker and strenuous. 
\par Ench      \tab Insanity \tab \tab Subject suffers continuous confusion. 
\par Evoc      \tab Delayed Blast Fireball 1d6 fire damage/level; }{\fs22 the caster}{ can delay blast for 5 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {rounds. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Grasping Hand \tab Hand provides cover, pushes, or grapples.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Forcecage \tab \tab Cube of force imprisons all inside. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Prismatic Spray \tab Rays hit subjects with variety of effects. 
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Sword \tab \tab Floating magic blade strikes opponents. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Illus     \tab Mass Invisibility \tab As invisibility, but affects all in range. 
\par            \tab Shadow Walk \tab Step into shadow to travel rapidly. 
\par            \tab Simulacrum \tab Creates partially real double of a creature. 
\par Necro     \tab Control Undead \tab Undead don't attack }{\fs22 the caster}{ while under }{\fs22 the caster\rquote s}{ 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {command. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Finger of Death \tab Kills one subject. 
\par Trans     \tab Ethereal Jaunt \tab }{\fs22 The caster}{ becomes ethereal for 1 round/level. 
\par            \tab Plane Shift \tab Up to eight subjects travel to another plane. 
\par            \tab Reverse Gravity \tab Objects and creatures fall upward. 
\par            \tab Statue \tab \tab Subject can become a statue at will. 
\par            \tab Teleport without Error As teleport, but no off-target arrival. 
\par            \tab Vanish \tab \tab As teleport, but affects a touched object. 
\par Univ      \tab Limited Wish \tab Alters reality-within spell limits. 
\par       
\par 8th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Mind Blank \tab Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic and scrying. 
\par            \tab Prismatic Wall \tab Wall's colors have array of effects. 
\par            \tab Protection from Spells Confers +8 resistance bonus. 
\par Conj      \tab Greater Planar Binding As lesser planar binding, but up to 24 HD. 
\par            \tab Incendiary Cloud \tab Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round. 
\par            \tab Maze \tab \tab Traps subject in extradimensional maze. 
\par            \tab Power Word, Blind Blinds 200 hp worth of creatures. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster VIII Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par            \tab Trap the Soul \tab Imprisons subject within gem. 
\par Div       \tab Discern Location \tab Exact location of creature or object. 
\par Ench      \tab Antipathy \tab \tab Object or location affected by spell repels certain creatures. 
\par            \tab Binding \tab \tab Array of techniques to imprison a creature. 
\par            \tab Demand \tab \tab As sending, plus }{\fs22 the caster}{ can send suggestion. 
\par            \tab Mass Charm \tab As charm monster, but all within 30 ft. 
\par            \tab Irresistible Dance \tab Forces subject to dance. 
\par            \tab Sympathy\tab \tab Object or location attracts certain creatures. 
\par Evoc      \tab Clenched Fist \tab Large hand attacks }{\fs22 the caster}{\rquote s foes. 
\par            \tab Telekinetic Sphere As resilient sphere, but }{\fs22 the caster}{ moves sphere 
\par }\pard \ql \fi360\li2520\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2520\itap0 {telekinetically. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Sunburst \tab \tab Blinds all within 10 ft., deals 3d6 damage. 
\par Illus     \tab Screen \tab \tab Illusion hides area from vision, scrying. 
\par Necro     \tab Clone \tab \tab Duplicate awakens when original dies. 
\par            \tab Horrid Wilting \tab Deals 1d8 damage/level within 30 ft. 
\par Trans     \tab Etherealness \tab Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions. 
\par            \tab Iron Body \tab \tab }{\fs22 The caster}{\rquote s body becomes living iron. 
\par            \tab Polymorph Any Object Changes any subject into anything else. 
\par Univ      \tab Symbol \tab \tab Triggered runes have array of effects. 
\par       
\par 9th-LEVEL SORCERER AND WIZARD SPELLS   
\par Abjur     \tab Disjunction \tab Dispels magic, disenchants magic items.
\par }\pard \ql \li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {Freedom \tab \tab Releases creature suffering imprisonment. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Imprisonment \tab Entombs subject beneath the earth. 
\par            \tab Prismatic Sphere \tab As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all sides. 
\par Conj      \tab Gate \tab \tab Connects two planes for travel or summoning. 
\par            \tab Power Word, Kill \tab Kills one tough subject or many weak ones. 
\par            \tab Summon Monster IX Calls outsider to fight for }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par Div       \tab Foresight \tab \tab "Sixth sense" warns of impending danger. 
\par Ench      \tab Dominate Monster As dominate person, but any creature. 
\par Evoc      \tab Crushing Hand \tab As interposing hand, but stronger. 
\par            \tab Meteor Swarm \tab Deals 24d6 fire damage, plus bursts. 
\par Illus     \tab Weird \tab \tab As phantasmal killer, but affects all within 30 ft. 
\par Necro     \tab Astral Projection \tab Projects }{\fs22 the caster}{ and companions into Astral Plane. 
\par            \tab Energy Drain \tab Subject gains 2d4 negative levels. 
\par            \tab Soul Bind \tab \tab Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection. 
\par            \tab Wail of the Banshee Kills one creature/level. 
\par Trans     \tab Refuge \tab \tab Alters item to transport its possessor to }{\fs22 the caster}{. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {Shapechange \tab Transforms }{\fs22 the caster}{ into any creature, and change forms once per round. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1080\itap0 {           \tab Teleportation Circle Circle teleports any creature inside to designated spot. 
\par            \tab Temporal Stasis \tab Puts subject into suspended animation. 
\par            \tab Time Stop \tab \tab The caster acts freely for 1d4+1 rounds. 
\par Univ      \tab Wish \tab \tab As limited wish, but with fewer limits. 
\par }}