{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info
{\title Spells (U, V, W, X, Y & Z)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy12\hr14\min10}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min16}{\version37}{\edmins38}{\nofpages19}{\nofwords6336}{\nofchars-32766}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (U, V, W, X, Y & Z)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Undetectable Alignment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Pal 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature or object
\par Duration: 24 hours
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par Conceals the alignment of an object or a creature from all forms of divination.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Undetectable Aura
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Magic 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Object touched weighing up to 5 lb./level
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell allows the character to mask a magic item\rquote s aura from detection. If the object bearing undetectable aura has identify cast on it or is similarly examined, the examiner recognizes that the aura is false and detects the object\rquote 
s actual qualities if he succeeds at a Will save.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Unhallow
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Evil]
\par Level: Clr 5, Drd 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: One day
\par Range: Touch
\par Area: 10-ft./level radius emanating from the touched point
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: See text
\par Unhallow makes a particular site, building, or structure an unholy site. This has three major effects.
\par First, all creatures in the area are warded from attacks by good creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured
 creatures.   All recipients get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by good creatures.  The spell blocks any attempt to possess the warded creatures or to exercise mental control o
v
er the creatures. The protection does not prevent a spell from gaining mental control over a creature, but it prevents anyone who does so from mentally commanding the protected creature. The barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one
 if it is in place before the spell is cast. This effect works regardless of alignment.
\par The spell also prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if
 such attacks require touching the warded creature. Evil elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier
 against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par These effects are not cumulative with protection from good. 
\par Second, all turning checks to turn undead suffer a \endash 4 profane penalt
y and turning checks to rebuke undead gain a +4 profane bonus. Spell resistance does not apply to this effect. (Note: This provision does not apply to the druid version of the spell.)
\par Finally, the character may choose to fix a single spell effect to the un
hallow site. The spell effect lasts for one year and functions throughout the entire consecrated site, regardless of its normal duration and area or effect. The character may designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures who share the c
haracter's faith or alignment, or creatures who adhere to another faith or alignment.  At the end of the year, the chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed or replaced simply by casting unhallow again.
\par Spell effects that may be tied to an unhallow site i
nclude aid, bane, bless, cause fear, darkness, daylight, deeper darkness, detect magic, detect good, dimensional anchor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure elements, freedom of movement, invisibility purge, negative energy protection, protection from elem
ents, remove fear, resist elements, silence, tongues, and zone of truth. Spell resistance might apply to these spells\rquote  effects. (See the individual spell descriptions for details.)
\par An area can receive only one unhallow (and its associated spell effect) at a time.
\par Unhallow counters but does not dispel hallow.
\par Material Components: Worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per level of the spell to be tied to the unhallowed area.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Unholy Aura
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Evil]
\par Level: Clr 8, Evil 8
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 20 ft.
\par Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius burst centered on the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par A malevolent darkness surrounds the subjects, protecting them from attacks, granting them resistance to spells cast by good creatures, and weakening good creatures when they strike the subjects. This abjuration has four effects:
\par First, the warded creatures gain a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance bonus to saves. This benefit applies against all attacks, not just against attacks by good creatures.
\par Second, the warded creatures gain SR 25 against good spells and spells cast by good creatures.
\par Third, the abjuration blocks possession and mental influence.
\par Finally, if a good creature succeeds at a melee attack against a warded creature, the offending attacker takes 1d6 points of temporary Strength damage (Fortitude save negates).
\par Focus: Worth at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Unholy Blight
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Evil]
\par Level: Evil 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: 20-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude partial
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character calls unholy power to smite the character's enemies. The power takes the form of a cold, cloying cloud of greasy darkness. Only good and neutral (not evil) creatures are harmed by the spell.
\par The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to good creatures and sickens them for 1d4 rounds. A sickened creature suffers a \endash 
2 penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saves, skill checks, and ability checks. A successful Fortitude save reduces damage to half and negates the sickening effect.
\par The spell deals only half damage to creatures who are neither evil nor good, and they are not sickened. They can reduce the damage in half again (down to one-quarter of the roll) with a successful Reflex save.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Unseen Servant
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: One invisible, mindless, shapeless servant
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The unseen servant is an invisible, mindless, shapeless force that performs simple tasks at the character's command. It can run and fetch things, open unstuck doors, and hold chairs, as well as clean and mend. The servant can perform only one activity at 
a
 time, but it repeats the same activity over and over again if told to do so. It has an effective Strength score of 2 (so it can lift 20 pounds or drag 100 pounds). It can trigger traps and such, but it can exert only 20 pounds of force. Its speed is 15 f
eet.
\par The servant cannot attack in any way; it is never allowed an attack roll. It cannot be killed, but it dissipates if it takes 6 points of damage from area attacks. (It gets no saves against attacks.) If the character attempts to send it beyond the spell
\rquote s range (measured from the character's current position), the servant ceases to exist.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Vampiric Touch
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous/1 hour (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character must succeed at a melee touch attack. The character's touch deals 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 10d6). The character gains temporary hit points equal to the damage the character inflicts. However, the character can
\rquote t gain more than the subject\rquote s current hit points +10, which is enough to kill the subject. The temporary hit points disappear 1 hour later.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Vanish
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One touched object of up to 
\par 50 lb./level and 3 cu. ft./level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell instantly transports an object to a designated destination.  Creatures and magical forces cannot be made to vanish. There is a 1% chance that a vanished item is disintegrated instead.
\par Distance is not a factor, but interplanar travel is not possible.  The character must have some clear idea of the location and layout of the destination. The clearer the character's mental
 image, the more likely the teleportation works. Areas of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more hazardous or even impossible.
\par Note: Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation.
\par To see how well the teleportation works, roll d% and consult the Teleport table. 
\par \tab \tab \tab On \tab \tab Off \tab \tab Similar
\par Familiarity \tab \tab Target \tab \tab Target \tab \tab Area \tab \tab Mishap
\par ----------- \tab \tab ------ \tab \tab ------ \tab \tab ------- \tab ------
\par Very familiar \tab \tab 01\endash 97 \tab \tab 98\endash 99 \tab \tab 100 \tab \tab \emdash 
\par Studied carefully \tab 01\endash 94 \tab \tab 95\endash 97 \tab \tab 98\endash 99 \tab \tab 100
\par Seen casually \tab \tab 01\endash 88 \tab \tab 89\endash 94 \tab \tab 95\endash 98 \tab \tab 99\endash 100
\par Viewed once \tab \tab 01\endash 76 \tab \tab 77\endash 88 \tab \tab 89\endash 96 \tab \tab 97\endash 100
\par Description \tab \tab 01\endash 52 \tab \tab 53\endash 76 \tab \tab 77\endash 92 \tab \tab 93\endash 100
\par False destination \tab (1d20+80) \tab \emdash  \emdash  \tab \tab 81\endash 92 \tab \tab 93\endash 100
\par Refer to the following information for definitions of the terms on the table.
\par Familiarity: "Very familiar" is a place where the character has been very often and where the character feels at home. "Studied carefully" is a place the character knows well, either becaus
e the character has been there often or the character has used other means to study the place. "Seen casually" is a place that the character has seen more than once but with which the character is not very familiar. "Viewed once" is a place that the chara
cter has seen once, possibly using magic. "Description" is a place whose location and appearance the character knows through someone else\rquote s description, perhaps even from a precise map.
\par "False destination" is a place that doesn\rquote t exist. When traveling to a 
false destination, roll 1d20+80 to obtain results on the table, rather than rolling d%, since there is no real destination for the character to hope to arrive at or even be off target from.
\par On Target: The object appears where the character wants it to be.
\par Off Target: The object appears safely a random distance away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 x 1d10% of the distance that was to be traveled. The DM determines the direction off target randomly.
\par Similar Area: The object winds up in an area that\rquote 
s visually or thematically similar to the target area. Generally, the object appears in the closest similar place, but since the spell has no range limit, the object could conceivably wind up somewhere else across the globe.
\par Mishap: The object takes 1d10 points of damage, and the character rerolls on the chart to see where the object winds up. For these rerolls, roll 1d20+80. Each time "Mishap" comes up, the object takes more damage and the character must reroll.
\par If desired, a v
anished object can be sent to a distant location on the Ethereal Plane. In this case, the point from which the object vanished remains faintly magical until the item is retrieved. A successful targeted dispel magic spell cast on that point brings the vani
shed item back from the Ethereal Plane.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Veil
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Targets: One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: Concentration + 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (see text)
\par The character instantly changes the appearance of the subjects and then maintain that appearance for the spell\rquote s duration. The character can make the subjec
ts appear to be anything the character wishes. The subjects look, feel, and smell just like the creatures the spell makes them resemble. Affected creatures resume their normal appearances if slain. The character must succeed at a Disguise check to duplica
te the appearance of a specific individual. This spell gives the character a +10 bonus on the check.
\par Unwilling targets can negate the spell\rquote s effect on them by making Will saves or with SR. Those who interact with the subjects can attempt Will disbelief saves to see through the glamer, but SR doesn\rquote t help.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ventriloquism
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Intelligible sound, usually speech
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character can make the character's voice (or any sound that the character can normally make vocally) seem to issue from someplace else. The character ca
n speak in any language the character knows. With respect to such voices and sounds, anyone who hears it and rolls a successful save recognizes the sound as illusory (but still hears it).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Virtue
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute
\par Saving Throw: Yes (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The subject gains 1 temporary hit point.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Vision
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, M, XP
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: See text
\par Vision quickly brings to the character's mind legends about an important person, place, or thing, but produces some strain on the character. The character poses a question about some person, place, or object, then casts the spell. If the person or object 
i
s at hand or if the character is in the place in question, the character receives a vision about it with a successful Scry check (DC 10). If only detailed information on the person, place, or object is known, the DC is 15, and the information gained is in
c
omplete (though it often provides enough information to help the character find the person, place, or thing, thus allowing a better vision next time). If only rumors are known, the DC is 20, and the information gained is vague (though it often directs the
 character to more detailed information, thus allowing a better vision).
\par When completed, the divination brings legends (if any) about the person, place, or things to the character's mind. These may be legends that are still current, legends that have been f
orgotten, or even information that has never been generally known. If the person, place, or thing is not of legendary importance, the character gains no information. As a rule of thumb, characters 11th level and higher are "legendary," as are the sorts of
 creatures they contend with, the major magic items they wield, and the places where they perform their key deeds.
\par XP Cost: 100 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wail of the Banshee
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy [Death, Sonic]
\par Level: Death 9, Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: One living creature/level within a 30-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character emits a terrible scream that kills creatures that hear it (except for the character). The spell affects up to one creature per caster level. Creatures closest to the point of origin are affected first.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Fire
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par Level: Drd 5, Fire 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Opaque sheet of flame up to 20 ft. long/caster level or a ring of fire with a radius of up to 5 ft./two caster levels; either form 20 ft. high
\par Duration: Concentration + 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par An immobile, blazing curtain of shimmering violet fire springs into existence. One side of the wall, selected by the character, sends forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of fire damage to those
 
past 10 feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and each round that a creature enters or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire damage +1 point of fire damage per caster level (maximum +20) to any c
reature passing through it. The wall deals double damage to undead creatures.
\par If the character evokes the wall so that it appears where creatures are, each creature takes damage as if passing through the wall. Each such creature can avoid the wall by making
 a successful Reflex save. (If the creature ends up on the hot side of the wall, it takes 2d4 points of damage, as normal.)
\par If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points of cold damage or more in 1 round, that length goes out. (Do not divide cold damage by 4, as normal for objects.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Force
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 ft./level
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par A wall of force spell creates an invisible wall of force. The wall of force cannot move, it is immune to damage of all kinds, and it is totally unaffected by most spe
lls, including dispel magic. However, disintegrate immediately destroys it, as does a rod of cancellation, a sphere of annihilation, and disjunction. Spells and breath weapons cannot pass through the wall in either direction, although transportation spell
s
 and effects can bypass the barrier. It blocks ethereal creatures as well as material creatures (though ethereal creatures can usually get around the wall by floating under or over it through material floors and ceilings). Gaze attacks can operate through
 the wall of force.
\par The caster can form the wall into a flat, vertical plane whose area is up to one 10-foot square per level, or into a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 foot per level.
\par The wall of force must be continuous and unbroken when formed. If its surface is broken by any object or creature, the spell fails.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Ice
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Cold]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Anchored plane of ice, up to one 10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. +1 ft./level
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell creates an anchored plane of ice or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the version selected. A wall of i
ce cannot form in an area occupied by physical objects or creatures. Its surface must be smooth and unbroken when created. Fire can melt a wall of ice. It deals full damage to the wall (instead of the normal half damage suffered by objects). Suddenly melt
ing the wall of ice creates a great cloud of steamy fog that lasts for 10 minutes.
\par Ice Plane: A sheet of strong, hard ice appears. The wall is 1 inch thick per caster level. It covers up to a 10-foot-squa
re area per caster level (so a 10th-level wizard can create a wall of ice 100 feet long and 10 feet high, a wall 50 feet long and 20 feet high, etc.). The plane can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is anchored. A vertical wall need only be anchore
d on the floor, while a horizontal or slanting wall must be anchored on two opposite sides.
\par Each 10-foot square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breache
d. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 15 + caster level.
\par Even when the ice has been broken through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any creature stepping through it (including the one who broke through the wall) takes 1d6 points of cold damage +1 point per caster level.
\par Hemisphere: The wall takes the form of a hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 feet +1 foot per caster level. It is as hard to break through as the ice plane form, but it does not deal damage to those who go through a breach.
\par The character can create the hemisphere so that it traps one or more creatures, though these creatures can avoid being trapped by the hemisphere by making successful Reflex saves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Iron
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Iron wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (see text)
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The cha
racter causes a flat, vertical iron wall to spring into being. The wall inserts itself into any surrounding nonliving material if its area is sufficient to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another obje
ct. It must always be a flat plane, though the character can shape its edges to fit the available space.
\par The wall of iron is 1 inch thick per four caster levels. The character can double the wall\rquote s area by halving its thickness. Each 5-foot square of the wa
ll has 30 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically, but it is so hard that the first 10 points of damage from each blow are ignored. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break t
hrough the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par If the character desires, the wall can be created vertically resting on a flat surface but not attached to the surface so that it can be tipped over to fall
 on and crush creatures beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in either direction if left unpushed. Creatures can push the wall in one direction rather than letting it fall randomly. A creature must succeed at a Strength check (DC 40) to push the wall
 over. Creatures with room to flee the falling wall may do so by making successful Reflex saves. Large and smaller creatures who fail take 10d6 points of damage. The wall cannot crush Huge and larger creatures. 
\par Like any iron wall, this wall is subject to rust, perforation, and other natural phenomena.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 50 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Stone
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Clr 5, Drd 6, Earth 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Stone wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (S)
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell creates a wall of rock that merges into adjoining rock surfaces. The wall of stone is 1 inch thick per four caster levels and composed of up to one 5-foot square per level. The character can double the wall\rquote 
s area by halving its thickness. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object.
\par The character can create a wa
ll of stone in almost any shape the character desires. The wall created need not be vertical, nor rest upon any firm foundation; however, it must merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. It can be used to bridge a chasm, for instance, or as 
a ramp. For this use, if the span is more than 20 feet, the wall must be arched and buttressed. This requirement reduces the spell\rquote 
s area by half. The wall can be crudely shaped to allow crenellations, battlements, and so forth by likewise reducing the area.
\par Each 5-foot square has 15 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically, but the wall is so hard that the first 8 points of damage from each blow are ignored. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a cre
ature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 20 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par It is possible, but difficult, to trap mobile opponents within or under a wall of stone, provided the wall is shaped so it can hold the creatures. Creatures avoid entrapment with successful Reflex saves. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wall of Thorns
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Drd 5, Plant 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Wall of thorny brush, up to one
\par 10-ft. cube/level (S)
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The wall of thorns spell creates a barrier of very tough, pliable, tangled brush bearing needle-sharp thorns as long as a person\rquote s finger. Any creature forced into or 
attempting to move through the wall of thorns takes 25 points of damage per round of movement, minus 1 point for each point of the creature\rquote 
s AC. Dexterity bonuses to AC and dodge bonuses do not count for this calculation. (Creatures with an Armor Class of 25 or higher take no damage from contact with the wall.)
\par The character can make the wall as thin as 5 feet thick, which allows the character to shape the wall as a number of 10-by-10-by-5-foot blocks equal to caster level x2. This has no effect on the dam
age inflicted by the thorns, but any creature attempting to break through takes that much less time to force its way through the barrier.
\par Creatures can force their way slowly through the wall. To make any progress, a creature must succeed at a Strength che
ck (DC 20). A successful creature moves a number of feet equal to its Strength check result minus 19. Of course, moving or attempting to move through the thorns incurs damage as described above. A creature trapped in the thorns can choose to remain motion
less in order to avoid taking any more damage.
\par Any creature within the area of the spell when it is cast takes damage as if it had moved into the wall and is caught inside. In order to escape, it must attempt to push its way free, or it can wait until the s
pell ends. Creatures with the ability to pass through overgrown areas unhindered can pass through a wall of thorns at their normal speed without taking damage.
\par A wall of thorns can be carefully breached by slow work with edged weapons. Chopping away at the
 wall creates a safe passage 1 foot deep for every 10 minutes of work. Normal fire cannot harm the barrier, but magical fire burns away the barrier in 10 minutes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Warp Wood
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: 1 lb. of wood/level, all within a 20-ft. radius
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (0bject)
\par The character causes wood to bend and warp, permanently destroying its straightness, form, and strength.  Boards or planks can also be affected.  Warped ranged weapons are useless. Warped melee weapons suffer a \endash 4 penalty to their attack rolls.

\par Alternatively, the character can unwarp wood with this spell, straightening wood that has been warped by this spell or by other means. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Water Breathing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Sor/Wiz 3, Water 3 
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creatures touched
\par Duration: 2 hours/level (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures can breathe water freely. Divide the duration evenly among all the creatures the character touches.
\par The spell does not make creatures unable to breathe air.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Water Walk
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 3, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: One touched creature/level
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures can tread on any liquid as if it were firm ground. Mud, oil, snow, quicksand, running water, ice, and even lava can be traversed easily, since the subjects\rquote 
 feet hover an inch or two above the surface. (Creatures crossing molten lava still take damage from the heat.) The creatures can walk, run, charge, or otherwise move across the surface as if it were normal ground.
\par If the spell is cast underwater (or while the subjects are partially or wholly submerged in whatever liquid they are in), the subjects are borne toward the surface at 60 feet per round until they can stand on it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Web
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Webs in a 20-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Reflex negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Web creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands. These strands trap those caught in them. The strands are similar to spider webs but far larger and to
ugher. These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and diametrically opposed points or else the web collapses upon itself and disappears. Creatures caught within a web or simply touching its strands become entangled among the gluey fibers.
\par An entangled creature suffers a \endash 2 penalty to attack rolls, suffers a \endash 4 penalty to effective Dexterity, and can\rquote t move. An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell must make a Concentration check (DC 15) or lose the spell.

\par Anyone in the effect\rquote s area when 
the spell is cast must make a Reflex save. If this save succeeds, the creature is not stuck in the webs and is free to act, though moving may be a problem (see below). If the save fails, the creature is stuck. A stuck creature can break loose by spending 
1
 round and succeeding at a Strength check (DC 20) or an Escape Artist check (DC 25). Once loose (either by making the initial Reflex save or a later Strength check or Escape Artist check), a creature may progress through the web very slowly. Each round de
voted to moving allows the creature to make a new Strength check or Escape Artist check. The creature moves 5 feet for each full 5 points by which the check result exceeds 10.
\par The web provides one-quarter cover for every 5 feet of the substance between the character and an opponent\emdash one-half cover for 10 feet of web, three-quarters for 15 feet, and total cover for 20 feet or more.
\par The strands of a web spell are flammable.  Any fire can set them alight and burn away 5 square feet in 1 round. All creatures within flaming webs take 2d4 points of damage from the flames.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Weird
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Phantasm) [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: Any number of creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with), then Fortitude partial
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Only the spell\rquote s subjects can see the phantasmal creatur
es attacking them. The character sees only shadowy shapes. The subjects first get a Will save to recognize the image as unreal. If a subject fails, the phantasm touches the subject, and the subject must succeed at a Fortitude save or die from fear. Even i
f the Fortitude save is successful, the subject takes 3d6 points of damage and is stunned for 1 round.  The subject\rquote s Strength score also drops 1d4 points for 10 minutes. A stunned creature can\rquote 
t act and loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. Attackers gain +2 bonuses to attack it.
\par If a subject of a weird attack succeeds in disbelieving and is wearing a helm of telepathy, the beast can be turned upon the character. The character must then disbelieve it or suffer its deadly fear attack.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Whirlwind
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Air]
\par Level: Air 8, Drd 8
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Effect: Cyclone 10 ft. wide at base, 
\par 30 ft. wide at top, and 30 ft. tall
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Reflex negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell creates a powerful cyclone of raging wind that moves through the air, along the ground, or over water at a speed of 60 feet per round. The character can concentrate on controlling the cyclone\rquote 
s every movement or specify a simple program. Directing the cyclone\rquote 
s movement or changing its programmed movement is a standard action for the character. The whirlwind always moves during the character's turn in the initiative order. If the cyclone exceeds the spell\rquote s range, it moves in a random, uncont
rolled fashion for 1d3 rounds\emdash possibly endangering the character or the character's allies\emdash and then dissipates (the character can\rquote t regain control of the cyclone, even if comes back within range).
\par Any Large or smaller creature that comes in contact with th
e whirlwind must succeed at a Reflex save or take 3d6 points of damage. Medium-size or smaller creatures who fail their first save must succeed at a second one or be picked up bodily by the whirlwind and held suspended in its powerful winds, taking 1d8 po
ints of damage each round with no save allowed. The character may direct the cyclone to eject any carried creatures whenever the character wishes, depositing the hapless souls wherever the whirlwind happens to be when they are released.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Whispering Wind
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: One mile/level
\par Area: 10-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: No more than 1 hour/level or until discharged (destination is reached)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character sends a message or sound on the wind to a designated spot. The whispering wind travels to a specific location within range that is familiar to the character, provided that it can find a way to the location. The whispering wind is unnoticed u
n
til it reaches the location. It then delivers its whisper-quiet message or other sound. Note that the message is delivered regardless of whether anyone is present to hear it. The wind then dissipates. The character can prepare the spell to bear a message 
o
f up to twenty-five words, cause the spell to deliver other sounds for 1 round, or merely have the whispering wind seem to be a faint stirring of the air. The character can likewise cause the whispering wind to move as slowly as one mile per hour or as qu
ickly as one mile per 10 minutes. When the spell reaches its objective, it swirls and remains until the message is delivered. Whispering wind cannot speak verbal components, use command words, or activate magical effects.
\par }{\i 
\par Wind Walk}{
\par Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 6, Drd 7
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: The character and one touched creature/ three levels
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: No and Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: No and Yes (harmless)
\par The character alters the substance of the character's body to a cloudlike vapor and moves through the air, possibly at great speed. The character can take other creatures with the character, each of which acts independently.
\par A magical wind wafts a wind walker along at up
 to 600 feet per round (60 mph) or as slow as 5 feet per round (1/2 mph), as the walker wills. Wind walkers are not invisible but rather appear misty and translucent. If fully clothed in white, they are 80% likely to be mistaken for clouds, fog, vapors, e
tc.
\par A wind walker can regain his or her physical form as desired and later resume the cloud form. Each change to and from vaporous form requires 5 rounds. The character, however, may dismiss the spell, ending it immediately. The character may even dismiss i
t for individual wind walkers and not others. While in vaporous form, subjects gain damage reduction 20/+1, though they may sustain damage from high winds (as determined by the DM). No spellcasting is possible in vaporous form.
\par For the last minute of the spell, a wind walker automatically descends 60 feet per round (for a total of 600 feet), though he or she may descend faster if he or she wishes. This descent serves as a warning that the spell is about to end.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wind Wall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Air 2, Brd 3, Clr 3, Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Wall up to 10 ft./level long and 5 ft./level high (S)
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par An invisible 
vertical curtain of wind appears. It is 2 feet thick and of considerable strength. It is a roaring blast sufficient to blow away any bird smaller than an eagle or tear papers and similar materials from unsuspecting hands. (A Reflex save allows a creature 
t
o maintain its grasp on an object.) Tiny and Small flying creatures cannot pass through the barrier. Loose materials and cloth garments fly upward when caught in a wind wall. Arrows and bolts are deflected upward and miss, while any other normal ranged we
apon passing through the wall suffers a 30% miss chance. (massive ranged weapons are not affected.) Gases, most gaseous breath weapons, and creatures in gaseous form cannot pass through the wall (although it is no barrier to incorporeal creatures).
\par While the wall must be vertical, the character can shape it in any continuous path along the ground that the character likes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wish
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, XP
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par By simply speaking aloud, the character can alter reality to better suit the character. Even wish, however, has its limits.
\par A wish can do any one of the following:
\par Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 8th level or lower, provided the spell is not from a school prohibited to the character. 
\par Duplicate any other spell of 6th level or lower, provided the spell is not from a school prohibited to the character. 
\par Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell of 7th level or lower even if it\rquote s from a prohibited school. 
\par Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or lower even if it\rquote s from a prohibited school. 
\par Undo the harmful effects of many other spells. 
\par Create a valuable item, even a magic item, of up to 15,000 gp in value. 
\par Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to an ability score. Two to five wish spells cast in immediate succession can grant a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to an ability score (two wishes for a +2 inherent bonus, three for a +3 inherent bo
nus, and so on). Inherent bonuses are instantaneous, so they cannot be dispelled. Note: An inherent bonus may not exceed +5 for a single ability score, and inherent bonuses to a particular ability score do not stack, so only the best one applies. 
\par Remove i
njuries and afflictions. A single wish can aid one creature per caster level, and all subjects must be cured of the same type of affliction. A wish can never restore the experience point loss from casting a spell or the level or Constitution loss from bei
ng raised from the dead. 
\par Revive the dead. A wish can bring a dead creature back to life by duplicating a resurrection spell. A wish can revive a dead creature whose body has been destroyed, but the feat takes two wishes, one to recreate the body and anothe
r to infuse the body with life again. A wish cannot prevent a character who was brought back to life from losing an experience level. 
\par Transport travelers. A wish can lift one creature per caster level from anywhere on any plane and place these creatures anywhere else on any plane regardless of local conditions. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate and SR. 
\par Undo misfortune. A wish can undo a single recent event. The wish forces a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including the charact
er's last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. The reroll, however, may be as bad as or worse than the original roll. An unwilling target gets a Will save to negate and SR. 
\par The character may wish for greater effects than these, bu
t doing so is dangerous. Such a wish gives the opportunity to fulfill the character's request without fulfilling it completely. (The wish may pervert the character's intent into a literal but undesirable fulfillment or only a partial fulfillment.)
\par Duplicat
ed spells allow saves and SR as normal (but save DCs are for 9th-level spells). When a wish duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, the character must pay 5,000 XP or that cost, whichever is more. When a wish duplicates a spell with a material component t
hat costs more than 10,000 gp, the character must provide that component.
\par XP Cost: 5,000 XP or more (see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Wood Shape
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 2
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One touched piece of wood no larger than 10 cu. ft. + 1 cu. ft./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par Wood shape enables the character to form one existing piece of wood into any shape that suits the character's purpose.  This spell also permits the character to reshape a wood door to make an exit where one didn\rquote 
t exist or to seal a door shut. There is a 30% chance that any shape that includes moving parts simply doesn\rquote t work.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Word of Chaos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Chaotic, Sonic]
\par Level: Chaos 7, Clr 7
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Area: Creatures in a 30-ft.-radius spread centered on the character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Uttering word of chaos creates two effects:
\par If the character is on the character's home plane, nonchaotic extraplanar creatures within the area are instantly banished back to their home planes. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least 1 day. This effect takes place rega
rdless of whether the creatures hear the word of chaos.
\par Creatures native to the character's plane who hear the word of chaos and are not chaotic suffer the following ill effects:
\par HD\tab \tab Effect
\par --\tab \tab ------
\par 12 or more \tab Deafened
\par Less than 12 \tab Stunned, deafened
\par Less than 8 \tab Confused, stunned, deafened
\par Less than 4 \tab Killed, confused, stunned, deafened
\par The effects are cumulative.
\par Deafened: The creature is struck deaf (see blindness/deafness) for 1d4 rounds.
\par Stunned: The creature is stunned for 1 round. A stunned creature can\rquote t act and loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. Attackers gain +2 bonuses to attack it.
\par Confused: The creature is confused, as by the confusion spell, for 1d10 minutes. This is a mind-affecting enchantment.
\par Killed: Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Word of Recall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Clr 6, Drd 8
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Unlimited
\par Target: The character and objects and willing creatures totaling up to 50 lb./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None or Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless, object)
\par Word of recall teleports the character instantly back to the character's sanctuary when the word is uttered. The character must designate the sanctuary when the char
acter prepares the spell, and it must be a very familiar place. The actual point of arrival is a designated area no larger than 10 feet by 10 feet. The character can be transported any distance within a plane but cannot travel between planes. The characte
r can transport, in addition to him or herself, objects and creatures weighing up to 50 pounds per caster level. Exceeding this limit causes the spell to fail.
\par An unwilling creature can\rquote t be teleported by word of recall. Likewise, a creature\rquote s Will save (or SR) prevents items in its possession from being teleported. Unattended, nonmagical objects receive no saving throw.
\par 
\par }{\i Zone of Truth
\par }{Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Clr 2
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: 5-ft.-radius/level emanation
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Creatures within the emanation area (or those who enter it) can\rquote t speak any deliberate and intentional lies. Creature
s are allowed a save to avoid the effects when the spell is cast or when they first enter the emanation area. Affected creatures are aware of this enchantment. Therefore, they may avoid answering questions to which they would normally respond with a lie, 
or they may be evasive as long as they remain within the boundaries of the truth. Creatures who leave the area are free to speak as they choose.
\par }}