{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (Q & R)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy12\hr10\min24}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min17}{\version29}{\edmins37}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords4299}{\nofchars24505}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1
\hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 .0a.}{\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (Q & R)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Quench
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area or Target: One 20-ft. cube/level (S) or one fire-based magic item
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None or Will negates
\par (object)
\par Spell Resistance: No or Yes (object)
\par Quench extinguishes all nonmagical fires in its area. The spell also dispels fire spells in the area, though the character must succeed at a dispel check of 1d20 +1 per caster level (maximum +15) ag
ainst each spell to dispel it. The DC to dispel such spells is 11 + the caster level of the fire spell. Fire-based creatures within the area take 1d6 points of damage per caster level from the spell (maximum 15d6, no save allowed).
\par Alternatively, the character can target the spell on a single magic item that creates or controls flame. The item loses all its fire-based magical abilities permanently unless it succeeds at a Will save. (Artifacts are immune to this effect.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Rainbow Pattern
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: (V), S, M, F (see text)
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Colorful lights with a 15-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: Concentration+1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A glowing, rainbow-hued pattern of interweaving colors captivates those within it. Rainbow pattern captivates a maximum of 24 HD of creatures. Creatures with the fewest HD are affected first. Among creatures
 with equal HD, those who are closest to the spell\rquote 
s point of origin are affected first. Affected creatures that fail their saves are captivated by the pattern. Captivated creatures cannot move away from the pattern, nor can they take actions other than to
 defend themselves. An attack on a captivated creature frees it from the spell immediately.
\par With a simple gesture (a free action), the character can make the rainbow pattern move up to 30 feet per round (moving its effective point of origin). All captivate
d creatures follow the moving rainbow of light, trying to get or remain within the effect. Captivated creatures that are restrained and removed from the pattern still try to follow it. If the pattern leads its subjects into a dangerous area, each captivat
ed creature gets a second save. If the view of the lights is completely blocked, creatures who can\rquote t see them are no longer affected.
\par The spell does not affect sightless creatures.
\par Verbal Component: A wizard or sorcerer need not utter a sound to cast this spell, but a bard must sing, play music, or recite a rhyme as a verbal component.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Raise Dead
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 5
\par Components: V, S, M, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 minute
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Dead creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The cleric restores life to a deceased creature. The cleric can raise creatures who have been dead only up to 1 day per caster level. In addition, the subject\rquote s soul must be free and willing to return. If the subject\rquote 
s soul is not willing to return, the spell does not work; therefore, subjects who want to return receive no saving throw. The subject loses a level (or 1 Constitution point, if the subject is 1st level) when raised.
\par Raise dead cures hit point dam
age up to a total of 1 hit point per Hit Die. Any ability scores damaged to 0 are raised to 1. Normal poison and normal disease are cured in the process of raising the subject, but magical diseases and curses are not undone. While the spell closes mortal 
wounds and repairs lethal damage of most kinds, the body of the creature to be raised must be whole. Otherwise, missing parts are still missing when the creature is brought back to life. None of the dead creature\rquote 
s equipment or possessions are affected in any way by this spell.
\par A creature who has been turned into an undead creature or killed by a death effect can\rquote t be raised by this spell. Constructs, elementals, outsiders, and undead creatures can\rquote t be raised. The spell cannot bring back a creature who has 
died of old age.
\par Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The subject of the spell loses one level when it is raised, just as if it had lost a level to an energy-draining creature. This level loss cannot be repaired by any spell. If the subject is 1st level
, it loses 1 point of Constitution instead. A character who died with spells prepared has a 50% chance of losing any given spell upon being raised, in addition to losing spells for losing a level. A spellcasting creature that doesn\rquote 
t prepare spells (such as a sorcerer) has a 50% chance of losing any given unused spell slot as if it had been used to cast a spell, in addition to losing spell slots for losing a level.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Random Action
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Clr 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 round
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The enchanted creature is compelled to act randomly for 1 round. Rather than deciding its action for itself, the subject of the spell takes an action determined randomly on the following table:
\par 1d8\tab Action
\par ---\tab ------
\par 1 \tab Attack self (succeed on any attack roll other than a natural 1).
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {2 \tab Attack nearest being (for this purpose, a familiar counts as part of the subject\rquote s "self").
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {3 \tab Flee away from caster at top possible speed.
\par 4 \tab Drop anything held.
\par 5 \tab Stand motionless (as if stunned).
\par 6 \tab Do nothing but defend (total defense).
\par 7 \tab Speak (in the subject\rquote s native tongue, usually regarding surface thoughts) or make noises (if not capable of speech).
\par 8 \tab Attack caster with melee or ranged weapons (or close with caster if attacking is not possible).
\par Nothing can affect this die roll in any way. It is always entirely random.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ray of Enfeeblement
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Ray
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A ray springs from the character's hand. The character must succeed at a ranged touch attack to strike a target. The subject suffers a \endash 1d6 enhancement penalty to Strength, with an additional \endash 
1 per two caster levels (maximum additional penalty of \endash 5). The subject\rquote s Strength score cannot drop below 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ray of Frost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation) [Cold]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Ray
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A ray of freezing air and ice projects from the character's pointing finger. The character must succeed at a ranged touch attack with the ray to deal damage to a target. The ray deals 1d3 points of cold damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Read Magic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par By means of read magic, the character can read magical inscriptions on objects that would otherwise be unintell
igible. This deciphering does not normally invoke the magic contained in the writing, although it may do so in the case of a cursed scroll. Furthermore, once the spell is cast and the character has read the magical inscription, the character is thereafter
 
able to read that particular writing without recourse to the use of read magic. The character can read at the rate of one page (250 words) per minute. The spell allows the character to identify a glyph of warding with a successful Spellcraft check against
 DC 13 or a symbol with a successful Spellcraft check against DC 19.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Reduce
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature or object of up to 10 cu. ft./caster level
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell causes instant diminution of a creature or object, decreasing its size and weight. Its height shrinks by up to 10% per caster level, to a maximum reduction of 50%. The reduced weight is proportional to the cube of the new height, as follows:

\par Height Decrease\tab Weight Decrease
\par ---------------\tab ---------------
\par \endash 10% (x 0.9) \tab \endash 30% (x 0.7)
\par \endash 20% (x 0.8) \tab \endash 50% (x 0.5)
\par \endash 30% (x 0.7) \tab \endash 60% (x 0.4)
\par \endash 40% (x 0.6) \tab \endash 80% (x 0.2)
\par \endash 50% (x 0.5) \tab \endash 90% (x 0.1)
\par All equipment worn or carried by a creature is reduced by the spell. Magical properties are not decreased by this spell. Weight, mass, and strength are affected, though.  A creature\rquote s hit points, Armor Class, and attack
 rolls do not change, but Strength decreases with size. For every 10% of reduction, a creature\rquote s Strength score suffers an enlargement penalty of \endash 1, to a minimum score of 1.
\par A shrinking object may damage weaker materials affixed to it, but a reduced object shrinks only as long as the object itself is not damaged.
\par Multiple magical effects that reduce size do not stack.
\par Reduce counters and dispels enlarge.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Refuge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Object touched
\par Duration: Permanent until discharged
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates powerful magic in some specially prepared object. This object c
ontains the power to instantaneously transport its possessor across any distance within the same plane to the character's abode. Once the item is transmuted, the character must give it willingly to an individual and at the same time inform him or her of a
 
command word to be spoken when the item is to be used. To make use of the item, the subject speaks the command word at the same time that the subject rends or breaks the item (a standard action). When this is done, the individual and all that he or she is
 wearing and carrying (up to a maximum of 50 lb./level) are instantaneously transported to the character's abode. No other creatures are affected (aside from a familiar that is touching the subject).
\par The character can alter the spell when casting it so that
 it transports the character to within 10 feet of the possessor of the item when it is broken and the command word spoken. The character will have a general idea of the location and situation of the item possessor at the time the refuge spell is discharge
d, but once deciding to alter the spell in this fashion the character has no choice whether or not to be transported.
\par Material Component: Worth 1,500 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Regenerate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 7, Healing 7
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 3 full rounds
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The subject\rquote s severed body members, broken bones, and ruined organs grow back. After the spell is cast, the
 physical regeneration is complete in 1 round if the severed members are present and touching the creature. It takes 2d10 rounds otherwise. Regenerate also cures 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +20).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Reincarnate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Dead creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par With this spell, the character brings back a dead creature in another body, provided death occurred no more than 1 week before the casting of the spell and the subject\rquote s soul is free and willing to return. If the subject\rquote 
s soul is not willing to return, th
e spell does not work; therefore, subjects who want to return receive no saving throw. Since the dead creature is returning in a new body, all physical ills and afflictions are repaired. The magic of the spell creates an entirely new young adult body for 
the soul to inhabit from the natural elements at hand. This process requires 1 hour to complete. When the body is ready, the subject is reincarnated.
\par A character reincarnated recalls the majority of his former life and form. The character retains his or her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as any class abilities or skills formerly possessed. The character\rquote 
s class, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, and hit points are unchanged. Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores depend partly on the new body. First eliminate the character\rquote 
s racial adjustments (since the character is no longer of his or her previous race) and then apply the adjustments found below. The character\rquote s level is reduced by 1. (If the character was 1st level, his or her
 new Constitution score is reduced by 1.)
\par It\rquote s quite possible for the change in the character\rquote s ability scores to make it difficult for the character to pursue his or her previous character class. 
\par The new incarnation is determined on the following table or by DM choice.
\par d% \tab Incarnation \tab Str \tab Dex \tab Con
\par -- \tab ----------- \tab --- \tab --- \tab ---
\par 01\endash 03 \tab Badger \tab \tab +4 \tab +8 \tab +4
\par 04\endash 09 \tab Bear, black \tab +8 \tab +2 \tab +4
\par 10\endash 13 \tab Bear, brown \tab +15 \tab +2 \tab +8
\par 14\endash 17 \tab Boar \tab \tab +4 \tab 0 \tab +6
\par 18\endash 25 \tab Centaur \tab +8 \tab +4 \tab +4
\par 26\endash 28 \tab Dryad \tab \tab 0 \tab +4 \tab 0
\par 29\endash 32 \tab Eagle \tab \tab 0 \tab +4 \tab +2
\par 33\endash 42 \tab Elf \tab \tab 0 \tab +2 \tab \endash 2
\par 43\endash 46 \tab Gnome \tab \tab \endash 2 \tab 0 \tab +2
\par 47\endash 48 \tab Hawk \tab \tab \endash 4 \tab +6 \tab 0
\par 49\endash 58 \tab Halfling \tab \endash 2 \tab +2 \tab 0
\par 59\endash 78 \tab Human \tab \tab 0 \tab 0 \tab 0
\par 79\endash 80 \tab Leopard \tab +6 \tab +8 \tab +4
\par 81\endash 82 \tab Owl \tab \tab \endash 4 \tab +6 \tab 0
\par 83\endash 86 \tab Pixie \tab \tab \endash 4 \tab +8 \tab 0
\par 87\endash 90 \tab Satyr \tab \tab 0 \tab +2 \tab +2
\par 91\endash 96 \tab Wolf \tab \tab +2 \tab +4 \tab +4
\par 97\endash 99 \tab Wolverine \tab +10 \tab +8 \tab +8
\par 100 \tab Other \tab \tab ? \tab ? \tab ? \tab (DM\rquote s choice)
\par Some bodies may make it impossible for the reincarnated character to use some of his or her class abilities. The reincarnated character does gain any powers or abilities associated with h
is new form. A humanoid reincarnated into an animal body can speak the languages it formerly knew and is a magical beast.
\par A wish spell can restore a reincarnated character to his or her original form.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remove Blindness/Deafness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 3, Pal 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Remove blindness/deafness cures blindness or deafness (caster\rquote s choice), whether the effect is normal or magical. The spell does not restore ears or eyes that have been lost, but it repairs them if they are damaged.
\par Remove blindness/deafness counters and dispels blindness/deafness.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remove Curse
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature or item touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Remove curse instantaneously removes all curses on
 an object or a person. Remove curse does not remove the curse from a cursed shield, weapon, or suit of armor, although the spell typically enables the person afflicted with any such cursed item to remove and get rid of it. Certain special curses may not 
be countered by this spell or may be countered only by a caster of a certain level or higher.
\par Remove curse counters and dispels bestow curse.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remove Disease
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Remove disease cures all diseases that the subject is suffering from. The spell also kills parasites.
\par Note: Since the spell\rquote s duration is instantaneous, it does not prevent reinfection after a new exposure to the same disease at a later date.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remove Fear
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One creature plus one additional creature/four levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 10 minutes and see text
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character instill courage in the subject, granting the creature a +4 morale bonus against fear effects for 10 minutes. If the subject is suffering from a fear effect when receiving the spell, it gets a new save with a +4 morale bonus.
\par Remove fear counters and dispels cause fear.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Remove Paralysis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 2, Pal 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: Up to four creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character can free one or more creatures from the effects of any temporary paralysis or from related magic, including a ghoul\rquote s touch, a hold spell, or a slow spell. If the spell is cast on one creature, the paralysis i
s negated. If cast on two creatures, each receives another save with a +4 resistance bonus against the effect that afflicts it. If cast on three or four creatures, each receives another save with a +2 resistance bonus.
\par The spell does not restore ability scores reduced by penalties, damage, or loss.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Repel Metal or Stone
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Drd 8
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Path 120 ft. wide and 10 ft. high, emanating from the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell creates waves of invisible and intangible energy that roll forth from the character. All metal or stone objects in the path of the spell are pushed away from the character to the limit of the range.
 Fixed metal or stone objects larger than 3 inches in diameter and loose objects weighing more than 500 pounds are not affected. Anything else, including animated objects, small boulders, and creatures in metal armor, moves back. Fixed objects 3 inches in
 diameter or smaller bend or break, and the pieces move with the wave of energy. Objects affected by the spell are repelled at the rate of 40 feet per round.
\par Objects such as metal armor, swords, etc. are pushed back, dragging their bearers with them. Even magic items with metal components are repelled, although an antimagic field blocks the effects. 
\par The waves of energy continue to sweep down the set path for the spell\rquote s duration. After casting the spell, the path is set, and the character can then do other things or go elsewhere without affecting the spell\rquote s power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Repel Vermin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Animal 4, Clr 4, Drd 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation centered on the character
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None or Will negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par An invisible barrier holds back vermin. A vermin with less than one-third the character's level in HD cannot penetrate the barrier. A vermin with at least one-third the character's level i
n HD can penetrate the barrier if it succeeds at a Will save. Even so, crossing the barrier deals the vermin 2d6 points of damage, and pressing against the barrier causes pain, which deters less aggressive vermin.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Repel Wood
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 6, Plant 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Path 120 ft. wide and 10 ft. high, emanating from the character
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Waves of energy roll forth from the 
character, moving in the direction that the character determines, causing all wooden objects in the path of the spell to be pushed away from the character to the limit of the range. Wooden objects larger than 3 inches in diameter that are fixed firmly are
 
not affected, but loose objects (barrels, siege towers, etc.) are. Objects 3 inches in diameter or smaller that are fixed in place splinter and break, and the pieces move with the wave of energy. Objects affected by the spell are repelled at the rate of 4
0 feet per round. 
\par Objects such as wooden shields, spears, wooden weapon shafts and hafts, and arrows and bolts are pushed back, dragging those carrying them with them. (A creature being dragged by an item it is carrying can let go. A creature being dragged
 by a shield can unlimber it as a move-equivalent action.) If a spear is planted (set) to prevent this forced movement, it splinters. Even magic items with wooden sections are repelled, although an antimagic field blocks the effects.
\par The waves of energy continue to sweep down the set path for the spell\rquote s duration. After casting the spell, the path is set, and the character can then do other things or go elsewhere without affecting the spell\rquote s power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Repulsion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 6, Clr 7, Protection 7, Sor/
\par Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, F/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Up to 10 ft./level
\par Area: Up to 10-ft.-radius/level emanation centered on the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par An invisible, mobile field surrounds the character and prevents creatures from approaching the character. The character decides how big the field is at the time of casting (up to the limit the character's level allows). Creatures within or entering the fi
eld must attempt saves. If they fail, they become unable to move toward the character for the duration of the spell. Repelled creatures\rquote 
 actions are not otherwise restricted.  If the character moves closer to an affected creature, nothing happens. (The crea
ture is not forced back.) The creature is free to make melee attacks against the character if the character comes within reach. If a repelled creature moves away from the character and then tries to turn back toward the character, it cannot move any close
r if it is still within the spell\rquote s area.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Resilient Sphere
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: 1-ft.-diameter/level sphere, centered around a creature
\par Duration: 1 minute /level
\par Saving Throw: Reflex negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A globe of force encloses a creature, provided it is small enough to fit within the diameter of the sphere. The sphere contains its subject for the spell\rquote s duration. The sphere is not subject to 
damage of any sort except from a rod of cancellation, a wand of negation, disintegrate, or a targeted dispel magic spell. These destroy the sphere without harm to the subject. Nothing can pass through the sphere, inside or out, though the subject can brea
the normally. The subject may struggle, but the only effect that act produces is to move the sphere slightly. The globe can be physically moved either by people outside it or by the struggles of those within.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character imbues the subject with magical energy that protects her from harm, granting her a +1 resistance bonus on saves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Resist Elements
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Fire 3, Pal 2, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This abjuration grants a creature limited protection to damage from whichever one of five energy types the character selects: acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic. Each round, the spell absorbs the first 12 point
s of damage the creature would otherwise take from the specified energy type, regardless of whether the source of damage is natural or magical. The spell protects the recipient\rquote s equipment as well.
\par Resist elements absorbs only damage. The character could still suffer unfortunate side effects.
\par Note: Resist elements overlaps (and does not stack with) endure elements and protection from elements. If a character is warded by protection from elements and one or both of the other spells, the protection spell abso
rbs damage until it is exhausted. If a character is warded by resist elements and endure elements at the same time, the resist spell absorbs damage but the endure spell does not.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Restoration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 3 rounds
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Restoration dispels any magical effects reducing one of the subject\rquote s ability scores.  The spell also dispels
 negative energy levels and restores one experience level to a creature who has had a level drained. The drained level is restored only if the time since the creature lost the level is equal to or less than 1 day per caster level. 
\par Restoration cures all temporary ability damage, and it restores all points permanently drained from a single ability score (caster\rquote s choice if more than one is drained).
\par Restoration does not restore levels or Constitution points lost due to death.
\par Material Component: Worth 100 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Resurrection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 7
\par Components: V, S, M, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Dead creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The cleric restores life to a deceased creature. The cleric can raise creatures who have been dead no longer than 10 years per caster level.  The condition of the remains is not a factor. So long as some small portion of the creature\rquote 
s body still exists, it can be resurrected, but the portion receiving the spell must have been part of the creature\rquote 
s body at the time of death. (The remains of a creature hit by a disintegrate spell count as a small portion of its body.)  In addition, the subject\rquote s soul must be free and willing to return. If the subject\rquote 
s soul is not willing to return, the spell does not work; therefore, subjects who want to return receive no saving throw. The subject loses a level (or 1 Constitution point, if the subject is 1st level) when raised.
\par Upon completion of the spell, the creature is immediately restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of prepared spells. 
\par None of the dead creature\rquote s equipment or possessions are affected in any way by this spell.
\par The character can revive someone killed by a death effect or someone who has been turned into an undead creature and then destroyed.  Constructs, elementals, outsiders, and undead creatures can\rquote 
t be raised. The spell cannot bring back a creature who has died of old age.
\par  Com
ing back from the dead is an ordeal. The subject of the spell loses one level when it is raised, just as if it had lost a level to an energy-draining creature. This level loss cannot be repaired by any spell. If the subject is 1st level, it loses 1 point 
of Constitution instead. Material Component: Worth at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Reverse Gravity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Up to one 10-ft. cube/2 levels (S)
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell reverses gravity in the spell\rquote s area, causing all unattached objects and creatures within it to fall upward and reach the top of the area in 1 round. If some solid object is 
encountered in this fall, falling objects and creatures strike it in the same manner as they would during a normal downward fall. If an object or creature reaches the top of the area without striking anything, it remains there, oscillating slightly, until
 the spell ends. At the end of the spell duration, affected objects and creatures fall downward.
\par Provided there\rquote s something for them to hold onto, creatures caught in the area can attempt Reflex saves to secure themselves when the spell strikes. Creatures who can fly or levitate can keep themselves from falling.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Righteous Might
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 5, Strength 5
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par The character grows to double the character's height, and the character's gear grows proportionally. This increase has the following effects:
\par The character gains a +4 enlargement bonus to Strength. 
\par The character's size becomes one step larger. 
\par Mass increases by a factor of eight. 
\par Weapons increase in size one step, increasing their damage as shown below. 
\par Old Damage\tab New Damage
\par ----------\tab ----------
\par 1d2 \tab \tab 1d3
\par 1d3 \tab \tab 1d4
\par 1d4 \tab \tab 1d6
\par 1d6 \tab \tab 1d8
\par 1d8 \tab \tab 2d6
\par 1d10 \tab \tab 2d6
\par 1d12 \tab \tab 2d8
\par Magical properties of magic items that get bigger do not change.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Rope Trick
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One touched piece of rope from 5 to 30 ft. long
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par When this spell is cast upon a piece of rope from 5 to 30 feet long, one end of the rope rises into the air until the whole rope hangs perpendicular to the ground as if affixed at the upper end. The upper end is, in fact, fastened to an extradimensional s
p
ace that is outside the multiverse of extradimensional spaces ("planes"). Creatures in the extradimensional space are hidden, beyond the reach of spells (including divinations), unless those spells work across planes.  The space holds up to eight creature
s (of any size).  Creatures in the space can pull the rope up into the space, making the rope \'93disappear.\'94
  In that case the rope counts as one of the eight creatures that can fit in the space.  The rope can support up to 16,000 pounds.  A force greater than that can pul the rope free.
\par Spells cannot be cast across the interdimensional interface, nor can area effects cross it. Those in the extradimensional space can see out of it as if a 3-foot-by-5-foot window were centered on the rope. The window is present
 in the Prime Material Plane, but it\rquote s invisible, and even creatures that can see it somehow can\rquote 
t see through it.  Anything inside the extradimensional space drops out when the spell ends. The rope can be climbed by only one person at a time. The rope tri
ck spell enables climbers to reach a normal place if they do not climb all the way to the extradimensional space.
\par Note: Creating an extradimensional space within or taking an extradimensional space into an existing extradimensional space is hazardous.
\par 
\par }{\i Rusting Grasp
\par }{Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One nonmagical ferrous object (or the volume of the object within 
\par 3 ft. of the touched point) or one ferrous creature
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character corrodes iron and iron alloys at a touch. Any iron or iron alloy item the character touches becomes instantaneously rusted, pitted, and worthless, effectively destroyed. If the item is so large that it cannot fit with
in a 3-foot radius, a 3-foot-radius volume of the metal is rusted and destroyed. Magical metal items are immune to this spell.
\par The character may employ rusting grasp in combat with a successful melee touch attack. Rusting grasp used in this way instantaneo
usly destroys 1d6 points of Armor Class gained from metal armor (up to the maximum amount of protection the armor offered) through corrosion.
\par Weapons in use by an opponent targeted by the spell are more difficult to grasp. The character must succeed at a melee touch attack against the weapon. A metal weapon that is hit is instantaneously destroyed. Note: Striking at an opponent\rquote 
s weapon provokes an attack of opportunity. Also, the character must touch the weapon and not the other way around.
\par Against iron creatures, rusting grasp instantaneously deals 3d6 points of damage +1 per caster level (maximum +15) per successful attack. The spell lasts for 1 round per level, and the character can make one melee touch attack per round.
\par }}