{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (H)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy8\hr15\min7}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min19}{\version17}{\edmins33}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords3164}{\nofchars18040}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (H)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hallow
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Good]
\par Level: Clr 5, Drd 5
\par Components: V, S, M, DF
\par Casting Time: One day
\par Range: Touch
\par Area: 10-ft./level radius emanating from the touched point
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: See text
\par Hallow makes a particular site, building, or structure a holy site. This has four major effects.
\par First, all creatures in the area are warded from attacks
 by evil creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures.   All recipients get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.  The spell blocks any a
t
tempt to possess the warded creatures or to exercise mental control over the creatures. The protection does not prevent a spell from gaining mental control over a creature, but it prevents anyone who does so from mentally commanding the protected creature
. The barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This effect works regardless of alignment.
\par The spell also prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural w
eapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Good elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the
 warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par These effects are not cumulative with protection from evil. 
\par Second, all Charisma checks to turn undead gain a +4 sacred bonus and Charisma checks to command undead suffer a \endash 
4 sacred penalty. Spell resistance does not apply to this effect. (Note: This provision does not apply to the druid version of the spell.)
\par Third, any dead body interred in a hallowed site cannot be turned into an undead creature.
\par Finally, the character may choose to fix a single spell effect to the hallow site. The spell effect lasts for one year and functions throughout the entire consecrated
 site, regardless of the normal duration and area or effect. The character may designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures who share the character's faith or alignment, or creatures who adhere to another faith or alignment. At the end
 of the year, the chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed or replaced simply by casting hallow again.
\par Spell effects that may be tied to a hallow site include aid, bane, bless, cause fear, darkness, daylight, deeper darkness, detect evil, detect magic, d
imensional anchor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure elements, freedom of movement, invisibility purge, negative energy protection, protection from elements, remove fear, resist elements, silence, tongues, and zone of truth. Spell resistance might apply 
to these spells\rquote  effects. (See the individual spell descriptions for details.)
\par An area can receive only one hallow (and its associated spell effect) at a time.
\par Hallow counters  but does not dispel unhallow.
\par Material Components: Worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 gp per level of the spell to be included in the hallowed area.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hallucinatory Terrain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: One 30-ft. cube/level (S)
\par Duration: 2 hours/level
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character makes natural terrain look, sound, and smell like some other sort of natural terrain.  Structures, equipment, and creatures within the area are not hidden or changed in appearance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Halt Undead
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: Up to three undead, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell renders up to three undead creatures immobile. Nonintelligent undead get no saving throw; intelligent undead do. If the spell is successful, it renders the undead immobile for the duration of the spel
l. The effect is broken if the halted creatures are attacked or take damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Harm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Clr 6, Destruction 6, Drd 7
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Harm damages a subject with negative energy that causes the loss of all but 1d4 hit points.
\par If used on an undead creature (requires a successful touch attack), harm acts like heal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Haste
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creature moves and acts more quickly than normal. This extra speed has several effects.
\par On its turn, the subject may take an extra partial action, either before or after its regular action.
\par The subject gains a +4 haste bonus to AC. The subject loses this bonus whenever it would lose a dodge bonus.
\par The subject can jump one and a half times as far as normal. This increase counts as an enhancement bonus.
\par Haste dispels and counters slow.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Heal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 6, Drd 7, Healing 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Heal enables the character to channel positive energy into a creature to wipe away disease and injury. It completely cures all diseases, blindness, deafness, hit point damage, and all temporary ability damage. It neutralizes poisons in the subject\rquote 
s system
, so that no additional damage or effects are suffered. It offsets a feeblemind spell. It cures those mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain. Only a single application of the spell is needed to simultaneously achieve all these effects.

\par Heal does not remove negative levels, restore permanently drained levels, or restore permanently drained ability scores.
\par If used against an undead creature, heal acts like harm. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Healing Circle
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Brd 5, Clr 5, Drd 6, Healing 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 20 ft.
\par Area: All living allies and undead creatures within a 20-ft.-radius burst centered on the character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude half (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Positive energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, curing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +20) to nearby living allies.
\par Like cure spells, healing circle damages undead in its area rather than curing them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Heal Mount
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Pal 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: The character's mount touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Heal mount enables the character to wipe away disease and injury in the character's special mount . It completely cures all diseases, blindness, or deafness of the mount, cures all points of damage taken due to wounds or injury, and repairs temporary abil
ity damage. It cures those mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain.
\par Heal mount does not remove negative levels, restore drained levels, or restore drained ability scores.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Heat Metal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Fire]
\par Level: Drd 2, Sun 2
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: Metal equipment of one creature/two levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; or 25 lb. of metal/level, all of which must be within a 30-ft. circle
\par Duration: 7 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par Unattended, nonmagical metal gets no saving throw. Enchanted metal is allowed a saving throw against the spell. An item in a creature\rquote s possession uses the creature\rquote s saving throw (unless its own is higher).
\par A creature takes fire damage if its equipment is burning. It takes full damage if its armor is affected or if it\rquote s holding, touching, wearing, or carrying metal weighing one-fifth of its weight. The creature takes minimum damage (1 point 
or 2 points; see the table) if it\rquote s not wearing metal armor and the metal that it\rquote s carrying weighs less than one-fifth of its weight.
\par On the first round of the spell, the metal becomes warm and uncomfortable to touch but deals no damage (this is also the effect on the last round of the spell\rquote 
s duration). During the second (and also the next-to-last) round, the hot metal causes pain and damage. In the third, fourth, and fifth rounds, the metal is searing, causing more damage, as shown below:
\par Round \tab Temperature Damage
\par ----- \tab ----------- ------
\par 1 \tab Warm None
\par 2 \tab Hot 1d4 points
\par 3\endash 5 \tab Searing 2d4 points
\par 6 \tab Hot 1d4 points
\par 7 \tab Warm None
\par Any cold intense enough to damage the creature negates heat damage from the spell (and vice versa) on a point-for-point basis.
\par If cast underwater, heat metal deals half damage and boils the surrounding water.
\par Heat metal counters and dispels chill metal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Helping Hand
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Clr 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Five miles
\par Effect: Ghostly hand
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates the ghostly image of a hand, which the character can send to find someone within five miles. The hand then beckons to that person and leads him or her to the character if the person follows it.
\par 
\par When the spell is cast, the hand appears in front of the character. The character then specifies a person (or any creature) by physical description, which can include race, gender, and appearance but not ambiguous factors such as le
vel, alignment, or class. When the description is complete, the hand streaks off in search of a subject that fits the description. The amount of time it takes to find the subject depends on how far away the subject is.
\par Distance\tab Time to Locate
\par --------\tab --------------
\par Up to 100 ft.\tab 1 round
\par 1,000 ft.\tab 1 minute
\par One mile\tab 10 minutes
\par Two miles\tab 1 hour
\par Three miles\tab 2 hours
\par Four miles\tab 3 hours
\par Five miles\tab 4 hours
\par Once the hand locates the subject, it beckons him or her to follow it. If the subject follows, the hand point
s in the character's direction, leading the subject in the most direct, feasible route. The hand hovers 10 feet in front of the subject, moving before him or her at a rate of anywhere up to 240 feet per round. Once the hand leads the subject to the charac
ter, it disappears.
\par The subject is not compelled to follow the hand or act in any particular way toward the character. If the subject chooses not to follow, the hand continues to beckon for the duration of the spell, then disappears. If the spell expires wh
ile the subject is en route to the character, the hand disappears.
\par If more than one subject within a five-mile radius meets the description, the hand locates the closest creature. If that creature refuses to follow the hand, the hand does not seek out a second subject.
\par If, at the end of 4 hours of searching, the hand has found no subject that matches the description within five miles, it returns to the character, displays an outstretched palm, and disappears.
\par The ghostly hand has no physical form. It is inv
isible to anyone except the character and potential subjects. It cannot engage in combat or execute any other task aside from locating the subject and leading her back to the character. The hand does not pass through solid objects but can ooze through sma
ll cracks and slits. The hand cannot travel more than five miles from the spot it appeared when the character cast the spell.
\par }{\i 
\par Heroes\rquote  Feast}{
\par Evocation
\par Level: Clr 6
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Feast for one creature/level
\par Duration: 1 hour + 12 hours (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character brings forth a great feast, including a magnificent table, chairs, service, and food and drink. The feast takes 1 
hour to consume, and the beneficial effects do not set in until this hour is over. Those partaking of the feast are cured of all diseases, are immune to poison for 12 hours, and are healed of 1d4+4 points of damage after imbibing the nectarlike beverage t
h
at is part of the feast. Characters who eat the food gain a morale bonus of +1 on their attack rolls and a morale bonus of +1 on saving throws against fear effects for the next 12 hours. During this same period, the people who consumed the feast are immun
e to magical fear and hopelessness.
\par If the feast is interrupted for any reason, the spell is ruined and all effects of the spell are negated.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hideous Laughter
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
\par Target: One creature (see text)
\par Duration: 1d3 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell afflicts the subject with uncontrollable laughter. It collapses into gales of manic laughter, falling prone. The subject can take no actions while laughing. After the spell ends, it can act normally.
\par Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 or lower are not affected. A creature whose type is different from the caster\rquote s receives a +4 bonus on its saving throw, because humor doesn\rquote t "translate" well.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hold Animal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) 
\par [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Animal 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One animal
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The animal is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions. The animal can, however, execute purely mental actions.
\par A winged creature who is held cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par Hold animal does not work on beasts, magical beasts, or vermin. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hold Monster
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 4, Law 6, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions.
\par A winged creature who is held cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hold Person
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, F/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One humanoid of Medium-size or smaller
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions.
\par A winged creature who is held cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hold Portal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Component: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One portal, up to 20 sq. ft./level
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell magically bars a door, gate, window, or shutter of wood, metal, or stone. The magic holds the portal fast, just as if it were securely closed and normally locked. A knock spell or a successful dispel magic spell can negate the hold po
rtal. For a portal affected by this spell, add 5 to the normal DC for forcing the portal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Holy Aura
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Good]
\par Level: Clr 8, Good 8, Luck 8
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 20 ft.
\par Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.-radius burst centered on the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par A divine radiance surrounds the subjects, protecting them from attacks, granting them resistance to spells cast by evil creatures, and blinding evil creatures when they strike the subjects. This abjuration has four effects:
\par First, the warded creatures gain a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance bonus to saves. 
\par Second, the warded creatures gain SR 25 against evil spells and spells cast by evil creatures.
\par Third, the abjuration blocks possession and mental influence, just as protection from evil does.
\par Finally, if an evil creature succeeds at a melee attack against a warded creature, the offending attacker is blinded (Fortitude save negates, as blindness/deafness, but against holy aura\rquote s save DC).
\par Focus: Worth at least 500 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Holy Smite
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Good]
\par Level: Good 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: 20-ft.-radius burst
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Reflex half
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character draws down holy power to smite the character's enemies. Only evil and neutral creatures are harmed by the spell; good creatures are unaffected.
\par The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to evil creatures and blinds them for 1 round. A successful Reflex saving throw reduces damage to half and negates the blinding effect.
\par The spell deals only half damage against creatures who are neither good nor evil, and they are not blinded. They can reduce that damage by half (down to one-quarter of the roll) with a successful Reflex save.
\par In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, grants a +2 bonus to opponents\rquote 
 attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a \endash 4 penalty on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Holy Sword
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Pal 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Weapon touched
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell allows the character to channel holy power into a weapon the character choose. The weapon acts as a +5 magic weapon and deals double damage against evil opponents. It emits a ward that protects creatures within 10 feet. This ward protects a cre
ature from attacks by evil creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. The ward has three major effects:}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{First, the subjects get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creatures or to exercise mental control over the creature. The protection does not prevent a gaining mental control over a warded character, but it prevents anyone f
rom mentally commanding the protected creature. The barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.
\par Third, the ward prevents bodily contact by su
mmoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Good elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection agains
t contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.

\par If the ward ends, the sword creates a new one on the character's turn as a free action. The spell is automatically canceled 1 round after the weapon leaves the character's hand for any reason. The character cannot have more than one holy sword at a time.

\par If th
is spell is cast on a magic weapon, the powers of the spell supersede any that the weapon normally has, rendering the normal enhancement bonus and powers of the weapon inoperative for the duration of the spell. This spell is not cumulative with bless weap
on or any other spell that might modify the weapon in any way.
\par This spell does not work on artifacts.
\par Note: A masterwork weapon\rquote s bonus to attack does not stack with an enhancement bonus to attack.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Holy Word
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Good, Sonic]
\par Level: Clr 7, Good 7
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Area: Creatures in a 30-ft.-radius spread centered on the character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Uttering holy word has two effects.
\par If the character is on the character's 
home plane, the spell instantly banishes nongood extraplanar creatures within the area back to their home planes. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least 1 day. This effect takes place regardless of whether the creatures hear the holy word.

\par Creatures native to the character's plane who hear the holy word and are not good suffer the following ill effects:
\par HD\tab \tab Effect
\par --\tab \tab ------
\par 12 or more\tab Deafened
\par Less than 12\tab Blinded, deafened
\par Less than 8\tab Paralyzed, blinded, deafened
\par Less than 4\tab Killed, paralyzed, blinded, deafened
\par The effects are cumulative.
\par Deafened: The creature is deafened (see blindness/deafness) for 1d4 rounds.
\par Blinded: The creature is blinded (see blindness/deafness) for 2d4 rounds.
\par Paralyzed: The creature is paralyzed and helpless for 1d10 minutes, unable to move or act in any way.
\par Killed: Living creatures die. Undead creatures are destroyed.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Horrid Wilting
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Water 8
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Targets: Living creatures, no two of whom can be more than 60 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude half
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell evaporates moisture from the bodies of all the subject living creatures, dealing 1d8 points of damage per caster level (maximum 25d8). This spell is especially devastating to water elementals and plant creatures, who receive a penalty of 
\endash 2 to their saving throws.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Hypnotic Pattern
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: (V), S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Colorful lights in a 15-ft.-radius spread
\par Duration: Concentration + 2 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A pat
tern of shifting colors weaves through the air, fascinating creatures within it. Roll 2d4 +1 per caster level to determine the total number of HD affected (maximum +10). Creatures with the fewest HD are affected first; and, among creatures with equal HD, 
those who are closest to the spell\rquote s point of origin are affected first. HD that are not sufficient to affect a creature are wasted. Affected creatures gaze at the lights, heedless of all else. Sightless creatures are not affected.
\par A wizard or sorcerer need not utter a sound to cast this spell, but a bard must sing, play music, or recite a rhyme as a verbal component.
\par 
\par }{\i Hypnotism
\par }{Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: Several living creatures, no two of which may be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 2d4 rounds (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character's gestures and droning incantation cause creatures 
nearby to stop and stare blankly at the character, hypnotized. The character can use their rapt attention to make the character's suggestions and requests seem more plausible. Roll 2d4 to see how many total HD the character affects. Creatures with fewer H
D are affected before creatures with more HD. Only creatures who can see or hear the character are affected, but they do not need to understand the character to be hypnotized.
\par If the character uses this spell in combat, the targets gain a +2 bonus to their saving throws. If the spell affects only a single creature not in combat at the time, the saving throw has a penalty of \endash 2. While hypnotized, a creature\rquote 
s Spot and Listen checks suffer a \endash 4 penalty. Any potential threat allows the creature a second saving throw. Any obvious threat automatically breaks the hypnotism, as does shaking or slapping the creature. A hypnotized creature\rquote 
s ally may shake it free of the spell as a standard action.
\par While the subject is hypnotized, the character can make a suggestion o
r request (provided the character can communicate with it). The suggestion must be brief and reasonable. An affected creature reacts as though it were two steps more friendly in attitude. Even once the spell ends, it retains its new attitude toward the ch
aracter, but only with respect to that particular suggestion.
\par A creature who fails its saving throw does not remember that the character enspelled it.
\par }}