{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info
{\title Spells (J, K, & L)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy9\hr9\min35}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min18}{\version16}{\edmins24}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2822}{\nofchars16091}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws19760}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (J, K, & L)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Jump
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The subject gets a +30 bonus on Jump checks and does not have the usual maximums for jumping distance. For leaps of maximum horizontal distance, the jump reaches its peak (one-fourth the horizontal distance) at the halfway point.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Keen Edge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One weapon or fifty projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par This spell makes a weapon magically keen, improving its ability to deal telling blows. This transmutation doubles the threat range of the weapon. A normal threat range becomes 19\endash 20. A threat range of 19\endash 20 becomes 17\endash 
20. A threat range of 18\endash 20 becomes 15\endash 
20. The spell can be cast only on piercing or slashing weapons (and it does not stack with itself). If cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the keen edge on a particular projectile ends after one use, whether or not the missile strikes its intended target.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The knock spell opens stuck, barred, locked, held, or arcane locked doors. It opens secret doors, as well as locked or trick-opening boxes or chests. It also loosens welds, shackles, or chains (provided they serve to hold closures shut
). If used to open a arcane locked door, the spell does not remove the arcane lock but simply suspends its functioning for 10 minutes. In all other cases, the door does not relock itself or becomes stuck again on its own. Knock does not raise barred gates
 or similar impediments, nor does it affect ropes, vines, and the like. Note that the effect is limited by the area. Each spell can undo up to two means of preventing egress through a portal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Know Direction
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Drd 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par The character instantly knows the direction of north from the character's current position. The spell is effective in any environment in which "north" exists, but it may not work 
in extraplanar settings. The character's knowledge of north is correct at the moment of casting, but note that the character can get lost again within moments if the character doesn\rquote 
t find some external reference point to help the character keep track of direction.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Legend Lore
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Brd 4, Knowledge 7, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M, F
\par Casting Time: See text
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: See text
\par Legend lore brings to the character's mind legends about an imp
ortant person, place, or thing. If the person or thing is at hand, or if the character is in the place in question, the casting time is only 1d4 x 10 minutes. If the character has only detailed information on the person, place, or thing, casting time is 1
d
10 days, and the resulting lore is less complete and specific (though it often provides enough information to help the character find the person, place, or thing, thus allowing a better legend lore next time). If the character knows only rumors, casting t
ime is 2d6 weeks, and the resulting lore is vague and incomplete (though it often directs the character to more detailed information, thus allowing a better legend lore).
\par During the casting, the character cannot engage in other than routine activities. When
 completed, the divination brings legends (if any) about the person, place, or things to the character's mind. These may be legends that are still current, legends that have been forgotten, or even information that has never been generally known. If the p
e
rson, place, or thing is not of legendary importance, the character gains no information. As a rule of thumb, characters 11th level and higher are "legendary," as are the sorts of creatures they contend with, the major magic items they wield, and the plac
es where they perform their key deeds.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 250 gp.
\par Focus: Worth 50 gp each.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Geas
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature of up to 7 HD
\par Duration: 1 day/level or until discharged (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A lesser geas places a magical command on a creature to carry out some service or to refrain f
rom some action or course of activity, as desired by the character. The creature must have 7 or fewer HD and be able to understand the character. While a geas cannot compel a creature to kill itself or perform acts that would result in certain death, it c
a
n cause almost any other course of activity. The geased creature must follow the given instructions until the geas is completed, no matter how long it takes. If the instructions involve some open-ended task that the recipient cannot complete through his o
w
n actions (such as "Wait here" or "Defend this area against attack"), the spell remains in effect for a maximum of 1 day per caster level. Note that a clever recipient can subvert some instructions. For example, if the character orders the recipient to pr
otect the character from all harm, it might place the character in a nice, safe dungeon for the duration of the spell.
\par If the subject is prevented from obeying the lesser geas for a whole day, he suffers a \endash 2 penalty on each ability score. Each day, another \endash 2 penalty accumulates, up to a total of \endash 
8. Abilities are not reduced below 1. The ability penalties end 1 day after the character resumes obeying the lesser geas.
\par A lesser geas (and all ability penalties) can be ended by break enchantment, limited wish, remove curse, miracle, or wish. Dispel magic does not affect a lesser geas.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Planar Ally
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Clr 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)
\par Effect: One summoned elemental or outsider of up to 8 HD
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par By casting this spell, the character requests the character's deity to send the character an elemental or outsider (of up to 8 HD) of the deity\rquote 
s choice. If the character serves no particular deity, the spell is a general plea answered by a creature sharing the character's philosophical alignment. If the character knows an individual creature\rquote 
s name, the character may request that individual by speaking the name during the spell (though the character might get a different creature anyway).
\par The character may ask the creature to perform one task for the character, and the creature may request some service in return. The more demanding the character's
 request, the greater return favor the creature asks for. This bargaining takes at least 1 round, so any actions by the creature begin in the round after it arrives. If the character agrees to the service, the creature performs the task the character requ
ested, reports back to the character afterward (if possible), and returns to its home plane. The character is honor bound to perform the return favor.
\par A creature may accept some form of payment, such as a magic item, in return for its service. The creature may keep it or may deliver the item to another member of the character's religion somewhere else, where it can help the religion\rquote s cause.

\par Note: When the character uses a calling spell that calls an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Planar Binding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)
\par Target: One elemental or outsider of up to 8 HD
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Casting this spell attempts a dangerous act: to lure a creature from another plane to a specifically prepared trap, which must lie within the spell\rquote s range. The called creature is held in t
he trap until it agrees to perform one service in return for its freedom.
\par To create the trap, the character must use a magic circle spell, focused inward. The type of creature to be bound must be known and stated. If it has a specific, proper, or given name, this must be used in casting the spell.
\par The target creature must attempt a Will saving throw. If the saving throw succeeds, the creature resists the spell. If the saving throw fails, the creature is immediately drawn to the trap (spell resistance does n
ot keep the creature from being called). The creature can escape from the trap with a successful SR roll, dimensional travel, or a successful Charisma check (DC 15 + 1/2 the caster\rquote s level + the caster\rquote 
s Charisma modifier). It can try each method once per 
day. If it breaks loose, it can flee or attack the character. A dimensional anchor cast on the creature prevents its escape via dimensional travel. The character can also employ a calling diagram to make the trap more secure.
\par If the creature does not break
 free of the trap, the character can keep it bound for as long as the character dares. The character can attempt to compel the creature to perform a service by describing the service and perhaps offering some sort of reward. The character makes a Charisma
 check opposed by the creature\rquote 
s Charisma check. The DM then assigns a bonus based on the service and reward, from 0 to +6. This bonus applies to the character's Charisma check. If the creature wins the opposed check, it refuses service. New offers, bribes,
 and the like can be made or the old ones reoffered every 24 hours. This can be repeated until the creature promises to serve, until it breaks free, or until the character decides to get rid of it by means of some other spell. Impossible demands or unreas
onable commands are never agreed to. If the character rolls a 1 on the Charisma check, the creature breaks free of the binding and can escape or attack the character.
\par Once the requested service is completed, the creature need only so inform the character to
 be instantly sent back whence it came. The creature might later seek revenge. If the character assigns some open-ended task that the creature cannot complete though its own actions (such as "Wait here" or "Defend this area against attack"), the spell rem
ains in effect for a maximum of 1 day per caster level, and the creature gains an immediate chance to break free. Note that a clever recipient can subvert some instructions.
\par When the character uses a calling spell to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Restoration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 2, Drd 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 3 rounds
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Lesser restoration dispels any magical effects reducing one of the subject\rquote s ability scores or cures 1d4 points of temporary ability damage to one of the subject\rquote s ability scores. It does not restore permanent ability drain.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Levitate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal or close (25 ft.+ 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: The character or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level)
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Levitate allows the character to move him or herself, another creature, or an object up and down as the character wishes. A creature must be willing to be levitated,
 and an object must be unattended or possessed by a willing creature. The character can mentally direct the recipient to move up or down as much as 20 feet each round; doing so is a move-equivalent action. The character cannot move the recipient horizonta
lly, but the recipient could clamber along the face of a cliff or push against a ceiling to move laterally (generally at half its base speed).
\par A levitating creature who attacks with a melee or ranged weapon finds itself increasingly unstable; the first attack has an attack roll penalty of \endash 1, the second \endash 2, and so on, up to a maximum penalty of \endash 
5. A full round spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again at \endash 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Light
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Light]
\par Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Object touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell causes an object to glow like a torch, shedding light in a 20-foot radius from the point the character touches. The effect is immobile, but it can be cast on a movable object. Light taken into an area of magical darkness does not function.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lightning Bolt
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Electricity]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) or 50 ft. + 5 ft./level
\par Area: 5 ft. wide to medium range (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); or 10 ft. wide to 50 ft. + 5 ft./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Reflex half
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character releases a powerful stroke of electrical energy that deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to each creature within its area. The bolt begins at the character's fingertips.
\par The lightning bolt sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in its path. It can melt metals with a low melting point, such as lead, gold, copper, silver, or bronze. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or brea
ks through it, the bolt may continue beyond the barrier if the spell\rquote s range permits; otherwise, it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Limited Wish
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, XP
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A limited wish lets the character create nearly any type of effect. A limited wish can do any of the following:
\par Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 6th level or lower, provided the spell is not from a school prohibited to the character. 
\par Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or lower, provided the spell is not from a school prohibited to the character. 
\par Duplicate any wizard/sorcerer spell of 5th level or lower even if it\rquote s from a prohibited school. 
\par Duplicate any other spell of 4th level or lower even if it\rquote s from a prohibited school. 
\par Undo the harmful effects of many other spells. 
\par Have any other effect whose power level is in line with the above effects.
\par A duplicated spell allows saving throws and spell resistance as normal (but the save DC is for a 7th-level spell). When a limited wish duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, the character must pay that 
cost or 300 XP, whichever is more. When a limited wish spell duplicates a spell with a material component that costs more than 1,000 gp, the character must provide that component.
\par XP Cost: 300 XP or more (see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Liveoak
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Tree touched
\par Duration: 1 day/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell turns an oak tree into a protector or guardian. The spell can be cast on only a single tree at a time; while liveoak is in effect, the character can\rquote 
t cast it again on another tree. The tree on which the spell is cast must be within 10 feet of the character's dwelling place, within a place sacred to the character, or within 300 feet of something that the character wishes to guard or protect.
\par Liveoak must be cast on a healthy, Huge oak. A triggering phrase of up to one word per caster level is placed on the targeted oak.  The liveoak spell triggers the tree into animating as a treant. (At the DM\rquote s option, the ch
aracter can extrapolate stats for a smaller tree from the treant statistics if the character cast liveoak on a smaller oak.)
\par If liveoak is dispelled, the tree takes root immediately, wherever it happens to be. If released by the character, it tries to return to its original location before taking root.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Locate Creature
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par The character senses the direction of a known or familiar creature
\par The character slowly turns and senses when facing in the direction of the creature to be located, provided the creature is within range. The character also knows in which direction the creature is moving, if any.
\par The spell can locate a creature of a specific type (such as human or unicorn) or a sp
ecific creature known to the character. It cannot find a creature of a general type (such as humanoid or beast). To find a type of creature, the character must have seen such a creature up close (within 30 feet) at least once.  The character locates the n
e
arest one of its type if more than one creature of the appropriate type is within range. Attempting to find a specific creature requires a specific and accurate mental image; if the image is not close enough to the actual creature, the spell fails. The ch
aracter cannot specify a unique character unless the character has observed that particular character firsthand (not through divination).
\par Running water blocks the spell. It cannot detect objects. It can be fooled by mislead, nondetection, and polymorph spells.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Locate Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2, Travel 2
\par Components: V, S, F/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: Circle, centered on the character, with a radius of 400 ft. + 40 ft./level
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character senses the direction of a well-known or clearly visualized object. The spell lo
cates such objects as apparel, jewelry, furniture, tools, weapons, and even a ladder. The character can search for general items such as a stairway, a sword, or a jewel, in which case the character locates the nearest one of its type if more than one is w
i
thin range. Attempting to find a specific item, such as a particular piece of jewelry, requires a specific and accurate mental image; if the image is not close enough to the actual object, the spell fails. The character cannot specify a unique object (suc
h as "Baron Vulden\rquote s signet ring") unless the character has observed that particular item firsthand (not through divination).
\par The spell is blocked by lead. Creatures cannot be found by this spell. Polymorph any object fools it.
\par 
\par }{\i Lucubration
\par }{Transmutation
\par Level: Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par The character instantly recalls any one spell of up to 5th level that the character has used during the past 24 hours. The spell must have been
 actually cast during that time period. The recalled spell is stored in the character's mind as through prepared in the normal fashion. If the recalled spell requires material components, the character must provide these. The recovered spell is not usable
 until the material components are available.
\par }}