{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (T)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy12\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min17}{\version29}{\edmins32}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords4244}{\nofchars24194}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Con\hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 
tent, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (T)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinesis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Target or Targets: See text
\par Duration: Concentration (up to 1 round/level) or instantaneous (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)(see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object) (see text)
\par The character moves objects or creatures by concentrating on them. Depending on the version selected, the spell can provide either a gentle, sustained force or a single short, violent thrust.
\par Sustained Force: A sustained force moves a creature or object weighing up to 25 pounds per caster level up to 20 feet per round. A creature can negate the effect against itself or against an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with SR.

\par This version of the spell lasts up to 1 round per caster level, but i
t ends if the character ceases concentration. The weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or both. An object cannot be moved beyond the character's range. The spell ends if the object is forced beyond the range. If the character ceases concentration
 for any reason, the object falls or stops.
\par An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand. The character might even be able to untie simple knots, though delicate activities such as these require Intelligence checks against a DC set by the DM.
\par Violent Thrust: Alternatively, the spell energy can be expended in a single round. The character can hurl one or more objects or creatures who are within range and all within 10 feet of each other toward any target within 10 feet/level of all the obj
ects. The character can hurl up to a total weight of 25 pounds per caster level.
\par The character must succeed at attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target with the items, using the character's base attack bonus + the character's Inte
lligence modifier. Weapons cause standard damage (with no Strength bonus). Other objects cause damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds to 1d6 points of damage per 25 pounds.
\par Creatures who fall within the weight capacity of the spell can be hurled, but th
ey are allowed Will saves to negate the effect, as are those whose held possessions are targeted by the spell. If a telekinesed creature is hurled against a solid surface, it takes damage as if it had fallen 10 feet (1d6 points).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telekinetic Sphere
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: 1-ft.-diameter/level sphere, centered around creatures or objects
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Reflex negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par A globe of force encloses a creature, provided it is small enough to fit within the diameter of the sphere. The sphere contains its subject for the spell\rquote s duration. The sphere is not subject to damage of any sort except from a r
od of cancellation, a wand of negation, disintegrate, or a targeted dispel magic spell. These destroy the sphere without harm to the subject. Nothing can pass through the sphere, inside or out, though the subject can breathe normally. The subject may stru
ggle, but the only effect that act produces is to move the sphere slightly. The globe can be physically moved either by people outside it or by the struggles of those within
\par The creatures or objects inside the globe are nearly weightless. Anything contained
 within an telekinetic sphere weighs only one-sixteenth of its normal weight. The character can telekinetically lift anything in the sphere that normally weighs up to 5,000 pounds. The range of the telekinetic control extends to a maximum distance of medi
um range from the character (100 feet + 10 feet per caster level) after the sphere has succeeded in encapsulating its contents.
\par The character moves objects or creatures in the sphere that weigh up to a total of 5,000 pounds by concentrating on the sphere. The character can begin moving a sphere the round after casting the spell. A round\rquote 
s concentration (a standard action) moves the sphere up to 30 feet. If the character ceases concentrating, the sphere does not move that round (if on a level surface) or descends at its falling rate (if aloft) until it reaches a level surface, the spell
\rquote s duration ends, or the character begins concentrating again. If the character ceases concentrating (voluntarily or due to failing a Concentration check), the character can res
ume concentrating on the character's next turn or any later turn during the spell\rquote s duration.
\par Note that even if more than 5,000 pounds of weight is englobed, the perceived weight is only one-sixteenth of the actual weight, so the orb can be rolled without 
exceptional effort. The sphere falls at a rate of only 60 feet per round, which is not fast enough to cause damage to the contents of the sphere.
\par The character can move the sphere telekinetically even if the character is in it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathic Bond
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One creature/three levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character forges a telepathic bond among creatures, each of which must have an Intelligence score of 6 or higher. Each creature included in the link is linked to all the others. The bond can be established only among willing subjects, which therefore 
r
eceive no saving throw or SR. The creatures can communicate telepathically through the bond regardless of language. No special power or influence is established as a result of the bond. Once the bond is formed, it works over any distance (although not fro
m one plane to another).
\par A wish spell can make a telepathic bond permanent, but it can bond only two people per wish.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleport
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5, Travel 5
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal and touch
\par Target: The character and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 50 lb./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None and Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object)
\par This spell instantly transports the character to a de
signated destination. Distance is not a factor, but interplanar travel is not possible. The character can bring along objects and willing creatures totaling up to 50 pounds per caster level. As with all spells where the range is personal and the target is
 the character, the character need not make a saving throw, nor is SR applicable to the character. Only objects held or in use (attended) by another person receive saving throws and SR.
\par The character must have some clear idea of the location and layout of t
he destination. The clearer the character's mental image, the more likely the teleportation works. Areas of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more hazardous or even impossible.
\par Note: Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation.
\par To see how well the teleportation works, roll d% and consult the Teleport table. 
\par \tab \tab \tab On \tab \tab Off \tab \tab Similar
\par Familiarity \tab \tab Target \tab \tab Target \tab \tab Area \tab \tab Mishap
\par ----------- \tab \tab ------ \tab \tab ------ \tab \tab ------- \tab ------
\par Very familiar \tab \tab 01\endash 97 \tab \tab 98\endash 99 \tab \tab 100 \tab \tab \emdash 
\par Studied carefully \tab 01\endash 94 \tab \tab 95\endash 97 \tab \tab 98\endash 99 \tab \tab 100
\par Seen casually \tab \tab 01\endash 88 \tab \tab 89\endash 94 \tab \tab 95\endash 98 \tab \tab 99\endash 100
\par Viewed once \tab \tab 01\endash 76 \tab \tab 77\endash 88 \tab \tab 89\endash 96 \tab \tab 97\endash 100
\par Description \tab \tab 01\endash 52 \tab \tab 53\endash 76 \tab \tab 77\endash 92 \tab \tab 93\endash 100
\par False destination \tab (1d20+80) \tab \emdash  \emdash  \tab \tab 81\endash 92 \tab \tab 93\endash 100
\par Refer to the following information for definitions of the terms on the table.
\par Familiarity: "Very familiar" is a place where the character has been very often and where the character feels at home. "Studied
 carefully" is a place the character knows well, either because the character has been there often or the character has used other means to study the place. "Seen casually" is a place that the character has seen more than once but with which the character
 is not very familiar. "Viewed once" is a place that the character has seen once, possibly using magic. "Description" is a place whose location and appearance the character knows through someone else\rquote s description, perhaps even from a precise map.

\par "False destination" is a place that doesn\rquote 
t exist. When traveling to a false destination, roll 1d20+80 to obtain results on the table, rather than rolling d%, since there is no real destination for the character to hope to arrive at or even be off target from.
\par On Target: The character appears where the character wants to be.
\par Off Target: The character appears safely a random distance away from the destination in a random direction. Distance off target is 1d10 x 1d10% of the distance that was to be traveled. The DM determines the direction off target randomly.
\par Similar Area: The character winds up in an area that\rquote s visually or thematically similar to the target area. Generally, the character appears in the closest similar place, but since the spell has no range limit, t
he character could conceivably wind up somewhere else across the globe.
\par Mishap: The character and anyone else teleporting with the character have gotten "scrambled." the travellers each take 1d10 points of damage, and the character rerolls on the chart to 
see where the travellers wind up. For these rerolls, roll 1d20+80. Each time "Mishap" comes up, the characters take more damage and must reroll.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleportation Circle
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: 0 ft.
\par Effect: Circle up to 5 ft. in radius that teleports those who activate it
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character creates a circle on the floor or other horizontal surface that teleports any creature who stands on it to a designated spot. Once the character designates the destination for the circle, the character can\rquote 
t change it. The spell fails if the character attempts to set the circle to teleport creatures into a solid object, to a place with which the character is not familiar and has no clear description, or to another plane.
\par The circle itself is subtle and nearly impossible to notice. If the character intends to keep creatures from activating it accidentally, the character needs to mark the circle in some way.
\par Note: Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 1,000 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Teleport without Error
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 7
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal and touch
\par Target: The character and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 50 lb./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None and Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object)
\par This spell instantly transports the character to a designated destination. Distance is not a factor, but interplanar travel is not possible. The character can bring along objects and willing creatures totaling up to 5
0 pounds per caster level. As with all spells where the range is personal and the target is the character, the character need not make a saving throw, nor is SR applicable to the character. Only objects held or in use (attended) by another person receive 
saving throws and SR.
\par The character must have a reliable description of the place to which the character is teleporting.  If the character attempts to teleport with insufficient information (or with misleading information), the character disappears and simp
ly reappears in the character's original location.  Areas of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more hazardous or even impossible.
\par Note: Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Temporal Stasis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character must succeed at a mel
ee touch attack. The character places the subject into a state of suspended animation. For the creature, time ceases to flow and its condition becomes fixed. The creature does not grow older. Its body functions virtually cease, and no force or effect can 
harm it. This state persists until the magic is removed by a successful dispel magic spell.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 5,000 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Time Stop
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9, Trickery 9
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1d4+1 rounds (apparent time)
\par This spell seems to make time cease to flow for everyone but the character. In fact, the character speeds up so greatly that all other creatures seem frozen, though they are actually still moving
 at their normal speeds. The character is free to act for 1d4+1 rounds of apparent time. Energy and effects present can still harm the character. While the time stop is in effect, other creatures are invulnerable to the character's attacks and spells; how
ever, the character can create spell effects and leave them to take effect when the time stop spell ends. (The spells\rquote  durations do not begin until the time stop is over.)
\par The character cannot move or harm items held, carried, or worn by a creature stuck in normal time, but the character can affect any item that is not in another creature\rquote s possession.
\par The character is undetectable while time stop lasts. The character cannot enter an area protected by an antimagic field, or by protection from chaos/evil/good/law, or by a magic circle spell, while under the effects of time stop.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tiny Hut
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 20 ft.
\par Effect: 20-ft.-radius sphere centered on the character's location
\par Duration: 2 hours/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates an unmoving, opaque sphere of force of any color the character desires around his or her self. Half of the sphere projects above the ground, and the lower hemisphere passes th
rough the ground. Up to nine other Medium-size creatures can fit into the field with the character; they can freely pass into and out of the hut without harming it. However, if the character removes him or her self from the hut, the spell ends.
\par The temperature inside the hut is 70\'b0 F if the exterior temperature is between 0\'b0 and 100\'b0 F. An exterior temperature below 0\'b0 or above 100\'b0 lowers or raises, respectively, the interior temperature on a 1-degree-for-1 basis (thus, if it
\rquote s \endash 20\'b0 outside, inside it\rquote ll be 50\'b0
). The hut also provides protection against the elements, such as rain, dust, and sandstorms. The hut withstands any wind of less than hurricane force, but a hurricane (75+ mph wind speed) or greater force destroys it.
\par The interior of the hut is a hem
isphere. The character can illuminate it dimly upon command or extinguish the light as desired. Note that although the force field is opaque from the outside, it is transparent from within. Missiles, weapons, and most spell effects can pass through the hu
t without affecting it, although the occupants cannot be seen from outside the hut (they have total concealment).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tongues
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Brd 2, Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell grants the creature touched the ability to speak and understand the language of any intelligent creature. The subject can speak only one language at a time, although he or she may be able to understand several languages. Tongues does not enable
 the subject to speak with creatures who don\rquote t speak. This spell does not predispose any creature addressed toward the subject in any way.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transformation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par The character gains 1d6 temporary hit points per caster level, a +4 natural armor bonus to AC, a +2d4 Strength enhancement bonus, a +2d4 Dexterity enhancement bonus, a +1 base attack bonus per two caster levels (which may 
give the character an extra attack), a +5 competence bonus on Fortitude saves, and proficiency with all simple and martial weapons. The character attacks opponents with melee or ranged weapons if the character can, even resorting to unarmed attacks if tha
t\rquote s all the character can do.
\par The character can\rquote t cast spells, even from magic items.
\par Material Component: A potion of Strength, which the character drinks (and whose effects are subsumed by the spell effects).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmute Metal to Wood
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 7
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: All metal objects within a 40-ft.-radius burst
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object; see text)
\par This spell enables the character 
to change all metal objects within its area to wood. Weapons, armor, and other metal objects carried by creatures are affected as well. Magic objects made of metal effectively have SR 20 + caster level against this spell. Artifacts cannot be transmuted. W
eapons converted from metal to wood suffer a \endash 
2 penalty to attack and damage rolls. Armor converted from metal to wood loses 2 points of AC bonus. Weapons changed by this spell splinter and break on any natural attack roll of 1 or 2, and armor changed by th
is spell loses an additional point of AC bonus every time it is struck by a natural attack roll of 19 or 20.
\par Only a limited wish, miracle, or wish or similar magic can restore a transmuted object to its metallic state. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmute Mud to Rock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S)
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell transforms normal mud or quicksand of any depth into soft stone permanently. Creatures in the mud are allowed a Reflex save to escape before the area is hardened to stone.
\par Transmute mud to rock counters and dispels transmute rock to mud.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmute Rock to Mud
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S)
\par Duration: Permanent (see text)
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell turns natural, uncut or unworked ro
ck of any sort into an equal volume of mud. Magical or enchanted stone is not affected by the spell. The depth of the mud created cannot exceed 10 feet. Creatures unable to levitate, fly, or otherwise free themselves from the mud sink until hip- or chest-
deep, reducing their speed to 5 feet and giving them \endash 
2 penalties on attack rolls and AC. Brush thrown atop the mud can support creatures able to climb on top of it. Creatures large enough to walk on the bottom can wade through the area at a speed of 5 feet.
\par If transmute rock to mud is cast upon the ceiling of a cavern or tunnel, the mud falls to the floor and spreads out in a pool at a depth of 5 feet. The falling mud and the ensuing cave-in deal 8d6 points of damage to anyone caught directly beneath the ar
ea, or half damage to those who succeed at Reflex saves.
\par Castles and large stone buildings are generally immune to the effects of the spell, since transmute rock to mud can\rquote t affect worked stone and doesn\rquote t reach deep enough to undermine such buildings\rquote  fo
undations. However, small buildings or structures often rest upon foundations shallow enough to be damaged or even partially toppled by this spell.
\par The mud remains until a successful dispel magic or transmute mud to rock spell restores its substance\emdash but no
t necessarily its form. Evaporation turns the mud to normal dirt over a period of days. The exact time depends on exposure to the sun, wind, and normal drainage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transport via Plants
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Unlimited
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 round
\par The character can enter any normal plant (Medium-size or larger) and pass any distance to a plant of the same species in a single round, regardless of the distance separating the two. The entry plant
 must be alive. The destination plant need not be familiar to the character, but it also must be alive. If the character is uncertain of the location of a particular kind of destination plant, the character needs merely designate direction and distance, a
nd the transport via plants spell moves the character as close as possible to the desired location. If a particular destination plant is desired, but the plant is not living, the spell fails and the character is ejected from the entry plant.
\par This spell does not function with plant creatures.
\par The destruction of an occupied plant slays the character.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Trap
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Object touched
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell makes a lock or other small mechanism seem to be trapped to anyone who can detect traps. The character places the spell upon any small mechanism or device. Any character able to detect traps, or who uses any spell or device ena
bling trap detection, is 100% certain a real trap exists. The effect is illusory and nothing happens if the trap is "sprung"; its primary purpose is to frighten away thieves or make them waste precious time.
\par If another trap spell is active within 50 feet when the spell is cast, the casting fails.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 50 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Trap the Soul
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Summoning)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S, M, (F)
\par Casting Time: 1 action or see text
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: Permanent (see text)
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (see text)
\par Trap the soul forces a creature\rquote s life force (and its material body) into a gem.
\par The gem holds the trapped entity indefinitely or until the gem is b
roken and the life force is released, which allows the material body to reform. If the trapped creature is a powerful creature from another plane (which could mean a character trapped by an inhabitant of another plane when the character is not on the Mate
rial Plane), it can be required to perform a service immediately upon being freed. Otherwise, the creature can go free once the gem imprisoning it is broken.
\par Depending on the version selected, the spell can be triggered in one of two ways.
\par Spell Completion: First, the spell can be completed by speaking its final word as a standard action as if the character were casting a regular spell at the subject. This allows SR (if any) and a Will save to avoid the effect. If the creature\rquote 
s name is spoken as well, any SR is ignored and the save DC increases by 2. If the save or SR is successful, the gem shatters.
\par Trigger Object: The second method tricks the subject into accepting a trigger object inscribed with the final spell word, automatically placing the creature\rquote s soul in the trap. To use this method, both the creature\rquote 
s name and the trigger word must be inscribed on the trigger object when the gem is enchanted. A sympathy spell can also be placed on the trigger object. As soon as the subject picks up or accepts the 
trigger object, its life force is automatically transferred to the gem without the benefit of SR or a save.
\par Material Component: at least 1,000 gp value for every Hit Die possessed by the creature to be trapped. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tree Shape
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 2, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par By means of this spell, the character is able to assume the form of a small, living tree or shrub or a large, dead tree trunk with a small number
 of limbs. The closest inspection cannot reveal that the tree in question is actually a magically concealed creature. To all normal tests the character is, in fact, a tree or shrub, although a detect magic spell reveals a faint transmutation on the tree. 
W
hile in tree form, the character can observe all that transpires around the character just as if the character were in the character's normal form, and the character's hit points and saves remain unaffected. The character gains a +10 natural armor bonus t
o AC but has an effective Dexterity score of 1. The character is immune to critical hits while in tree form. All clothing and gear carried or worn changes with the character.
\par The character can dismiss tree shape as a free action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tree Stride
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Teleportation]
\par Level: Drd 5, Rgr 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 hour/level or until expended (see text)
\par The character gains the ability to enter t
rees and move from inside one tree to inside another tree. The first tree the character enters and all others the character enters must be of the same type, must all be living, and must have girth at least equal to the character's. By moving into an tree,
 
the character instantly knows the location of all other trees of the same type within transport range (see below) and may choose whether the character wants to pass into one or simply step back out of the tree the character moved into. The character may c
hoose to pass to any tree of the appropriate kind within the transport range shown in the following table:
\par Type of Tree\tab \tab Range of Transport
\par ------------\tab \tab ------------------
\par Oak, ash, yew \tab \tab 3,000 feet
\par Elm, linden \tab \tab 2,000 feet
\par Other deciduous \tab 1,500 feet
\par Any coniferous \tab \tab 1,000 feet
\par All other trees \tab 500 feet
\par The character may move into a tree up to one time per level (passing from one tree to another counts only as moving into one tree). The spell lasts until the duration is expended or the character exits a tree. Each transport is a full-round action.
\par The character can, at the character's option, remain within a tree without transporting, though the character is forced out when the spell ends. If the tree in which the character is concealed is chopped down or b
urned, the character is slain if the character does not exit before the process is complete.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {True Resurrection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 9, Healing 9
\par Components: V, S, M, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Dead creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The cleric restores life to a deceased creature. The cleric can raise creatures who have been dead up to 10 years per caster level. In addition, the subject\rquote s soul must be free and willing to return. If the subject\rquote 
s soul is not willing to return, the spell does not work; therefore, subjects who want to return receive no saving throw. 
\par Upon completion of the spell, the creature is immediately restored to full hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss of level (or Constitution point) or prepared spells.
\par This spell can even bring back creatures whose bodies have been wholly destroyed, provided the character unambiguously identifies the deceased in some fashion (reciting the deceased\rquote s time and place of birth or death is the most common method).

\par None of the dead creature\rquote s equipment or possessions are affected in any way by this spell.
\par The character can revive someone killed by a death effect or someone who has been turned into an undead creature and then destroyed.
\par Constructs, elementals, outsiders, and undead creatures can\rquote t be raised. The spell cannot bring back a creature who has died of old age.
\par Material Components: Worth at least 5,000 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {True Seeing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Clr 5, Drd 7, Knowledge 5, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character confers on the subjec
t the ability to see all things as they actually are. The subject sees through normal and magical darkness, notices secret doors hidden by magic, sees the exact locations of creatures or objects under blur or displacement effects, sees invisible creatures
 
or objects normally, sees through illusions, and sees the true form of polymorphed, changed, or transmuted things. Further, the subject can focus her vision to see into the Ethereal Plane (but not into extradimensional spaces). The range of true seeing co
nferred is 120 feet.
\par True seeing, however, does not penetrate solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray vision or its equivalent. It does not cancel concealment, including that caused by fog and the like. True seeing does not help the viewer see through mun
dane disguises, spot creatures who are simply hiding, or notice secret doors hidden by mundane means. In addition, the spell effects cannot be further enhanced with known magic
\par Additionally, the divine version of this spell allows the subject to see auras, noting alignments of creatures at a glance.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 250 gp.
\par 
\par }{\i True Strike
\par }{Divination
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: see text
\par The character's next single attack roll (if it is made before the end of the next round) gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, the character is not affected by the miss chance that applies to attacks against a concealed target.
\par }}