{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (M)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy9\hr9\min54}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min18}{\version50}{\edmins74}{\nofpages24}{\nofwords7993}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (M)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mage Armor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation) [Force]
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par An invisib
le but tangible field of force surrounds the subject of mage armor, providing a +4 armor bonus to AC. Unlike mundane armor, mage armor entails no armor check penalty, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction. Since mage armor is made of force, inco
rporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass it the way they do normal armor.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mage Hand
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: Nonmagical, unattended object weighing up to 5 lb.
\par Duration: Concentration
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character points a finger at an object and can lift it and move it at will from a distance. As a move-equivalent action, the character can move the object up to 15 feet in any direction, though 
the spell ends if the distance between the character and the object ever exceeds the spell\rquote s range. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Aura
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One touched object weighing up to 5 lb./level
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character makes an item\rquote s aura register to detection spells (and similar spells) as though it were either a magic item of the type that the character specifies or the subject of a spell that the character specifies. 
\par If the object bearing magic aura has identify cast on it or is similarly examined, the examiner recognizes that the aura is false and detects the object\rquote s actual qualities if he succeeds at
 a Will save. Otherwise, he believes the aura and no amount of testing reveals what the true magic is.
\par If the targeted item\rquote s own aura is exceptionally powerful (if it is an artifact, for instance), magic aura doesn\rquote t work.
\par Note: A magic weapon, shield, or suit of armor must be a masterwork item, so a sword of average make, for example, looks suspicious if it has a magical aura.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Circle against Chaos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Lawful]
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Law 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Area: Emanates 10 ft. from touched creature
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards all creatures in the area from attacks by chaotic creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. 
\par The subjects get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by chaotic creatures.
\par The barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental control over the creature. The pr
otection does not prevent a spell or effect that grants mental commands to be cast on the creature, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If warding effect ends before the mental control effect does, t
he caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This effect works regardless of alignment.
\par The spell prevent
s bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Lawful elementals and outsiders are immune to this effec
t
. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch 
the warded creature.
\par This spell has a special function that the character may choose when casting the spell. A magic circle can be focused inward rather than outward. In this case, it serves as an immobile, temporary magical prison for a summoned creature. 
The creature cannot cross the circle\rquote s boundaries. 
\par The character must beat a creature\rquote s SR in order to keep it at bay, but the deflection and resistance bonuses and the protection from mental control apply regardless of enemies\rquote  SR.
\par If a creature too large to fit into the spell\rquote s area is the subject of the spell, the spell acts as normal for that creature only.
\par This spell is not cumulative with protection from chaos and vice versa.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Circle against Evil
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Good]
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Good 3, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Area: Emanates 10 ft. from touched creature
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards all creatures in the area from attacks by evil creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. 
\par The subjects get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.
\par The barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental control over the creature. The protection does not prevent a spell or effect that grants mental commands to be cast on the creature, but it prev
ents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If warding effect ends before the mental control effect does, the caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a pos
sessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This effect works regardless of alignment.
\par The spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to
 fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Good elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack a
gainst or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par This spell has a special function that the character may choose when casting the spell. A mag
ic circle can be focused inward rather than outward. In this case, it serves as an immobile, temporary magical prison for a summoned creature. The creature cannot cross the circle\rquote s boundaries. 
\par The character must beat a creature\rquote s SR in order to keep it at bay, but the deflection and resistance bonuses and the protection from mental control apply regardless of enemies\rquote  SR.
\par If a creature too large to fit into the spell\rquote s area is the subject of the spell, the spell acts as normal for that creature only.
\par This spell is not cumulative with protection from evil and vice versa. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Circle against Good
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Evil]
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Evil 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Area: Emanates 10 ft. from touched creature
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards all creatures in the area from attacks by good creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. 
\par The subjects get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.
\par The barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental control over the creature. The protection does not prevent a spell or effect that grants mental com
mands to be cast on the creature, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If warding effect ends before the mental control effect does, the caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled cr
eature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.
\par The spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This ca
uses the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Evil elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured cre
atures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par This spell has a special function that th
e character may choose when casting the spell. A magic circle can be focused inward rather than outward. In this case, it serves as an immobile, temporary magical prison for a summoned creature. The creature cannot cross the circle\rquote s boundaries. 

\par The character must beat a creature\rquote s SR in order to keep it at bay, but the deflection and resistance bonuses and the protection from mental control apply regardless of enemies\rquote  SR.
\par If a creature too large to fit into the spell\rquote s area is the subject of the spell, the spell acts as normal for that creature only.
\par This spell is not cumulative with protection from good and vice versa.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Circle against Law
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Chaotic]
\par Level: Brd 3, Chaos 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Area: Emanates 10 ft. from touched creature
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards all creatures in the area from attacks by lawful creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. 
\par The subjects get a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.
\par The barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental control over the creature.
 The protection does not prevent a spell or effect that grants mental commands to be cast on the creature, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If warding effect ends before the mental control effect 
does, the caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.

\par The
 spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Chaotic elementals and outsiders are immun
e
 to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protec
tion and touch the warded creature.
\par This spell has a special function that the character may choose when casting the spell. A magic circle can be focused inward rather than outward. In this case, it serves as an immobile, temporary magical prison for a summ
oned creature. The creature cannot cross the circle\rquote s boundaries. 
\par The character must beat a creature\rquote s SR in order to keep it at bay, but the deflection and resistance bonuses and the protection from mental control apply regardless of enemies\rquote  SR.
\par If a creature too large to fit into the spell\rquote s area is the subject of the spell, the spell acts as normal for that creature only.
\par This spell is not cumulative with protection from law and vice versa.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Fang
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Magic fang gives one natural weapon of the subject a +1 enhancement bonus to attack and damage rolls. The spell can affect a slam attack, fist, bite, or other natural weapon. (The spell does not change an unarmed strike\rquote 
s damage from subdual damage to normal damage.) If the character is a good druid, the natural weapon is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Jar
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft.+10 ft./level)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: 1 hour/level or until the character returns to the character's body
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par By casting magic jar, the character places the character's own soul in a gem or large crystal (known as the magic jar)
, leaving the character's body lifeless. Then the character can attempt to take control of a nearby body, forcing its soul into the magic jar. The character may move back to the jar (returning the trapped soul to its body) and attempt to possess another b
ody. The spell ends when the character sends the character's soul back to the character's own body (leaving the receptacle empty).
\par To cast the spell, the magic jar must be within spell range and the character must know where it is, though the character does
 not need line of sight or effect to it. When the character transfers the character's soul upon casting, the character's body is, as near as anyone can tell, dead.
\par While in the magic jar, the character can sense and attack any life force within 10 feet per
 caster level (on the same plane). The character does need line of effect from the jar to the creatures. The character, however, cannot determine the exact creature types or positions of these creatures. In a group of life forces, the character can sense 
a difference of four or more HD and can determine whether a life force is positive or negative energy. (Undead creatures are powered by negative energy. Only sentient undead creatures have, or are, souls.)
\par Attempting to possess a body is a full-round action. It is blocked by protection from evil or a similar ward. The character possesses the body and forces the creature\rquote 
s soul into the magic jar unless the subject succeeds at a Will save. Failure to take over the host leaves the character's life force in the
 magic jar, and the target automatically succeeds at further saving throws if the character attempts to possess its body again.
\par If successful, the character's life force occupies the host body, and the host\rquote s life force is imprisoned in the magic jar. The 
character keeps his or her Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, level, class, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, alignment, and mental abilities.  The body retains its Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, hit points, natural abilities, and mental abilities, s
uch as water breathing or regeneration.  A body with extra limbs does not allow the character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.  The character can\rquote t choose to activate the body\rquote 
s extraordinary or supernatural abilities.  The creature\rquote s spells and spell-like abilities do not stay with the body. 
\par As a standard action, the character can shift freely from a host to the magic jar if within range, sending the trapped soul back to its body. The spell ends when the character shifts from the jar to the character's own body.
\par If the host body is slain, the character returns to the magic jar, if within range, and the life force of the host departs (that is, it is dead). If the host body is slain beyond the range of the spell, bot
h the character and the host die. Any life force with nowhere to go is treated as slain.
\par If the spell ends while the character is in the magic jar, the character returns to the character's body (or dies if the character's body is out of range or destroyed)
. If the spell ends while the character is in a host, the character returns to the character's body (or dies, if it is out of range of the character's current position), and the soul in the magic jar returns to its body (or dies if it is out of range). De
stroying the receptacle ends the spell, and the spell can be dispelled at either the magic jar or the host.
\par Incorporeal creatures with the magic jar ability can use a handy, nearby object (not just a gem or crystal) as the magic jar.
\par Focus: Worth at least 100 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Missile
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: Up to five creatures, no two of which can be more than 15 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A missile of magical energy darts forth from the character's fingertip and unerringly strikes its target. The missile deals 1d4+1 points of damage.
\par The missile strikes unerringly, even if the target is in melee or has anything less than total cover or concealment. Specific parts of a creature cannot be singled out. Inanimate objects cannot be damaged by the spell.
\par For every two levels of experience past 1st, the character gains an additional missile. The character has two at 3rd level,
 three at 5th level, four at 7th level, and the maximum of five missiles at 9th level or higher. If the character shoots multiple missiles, the character can have them strike a single creature or several creatures. A single missile can strike only one cre
ature. The character must designate targets before the character rolls for SR or roll damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Mouth
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature or object
\par Duration: Permanent until discharged
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell imbues the chosen object or creature with an enchanted mouth that suddenly appears and speaks its message the next ti
me a specified event occurs. The message, which must be twenty-five or fewer words long, can be in any language known by the character and can be delivered over a period of 10 minutes. The mouth cannot speak verbal components, use command words, or activa
te magical effects. It does, however, move according to the words articulated. 
\par The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to the character's command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or as detailed as desired, althou
gh only visual and audible triggers can be used. Triggers react to what appears to be the case. Disguises and illusions can fool them. Normal darkness does not defeat a visual trigger, but magical darkness or invisibility does. Silent movement or magical 
s
ilence defeats audible triggers. Audible triggers can be keyed to general types of noises or to a specific noise or spoken word. Note that actions can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible. A magic mouth cannot distinguish invisible creatures, 
alignments, level, HD, or class except by external garb.
\par The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per caster level. Regardless of range, the mouth can respond only to visible or audible triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.
\par Material Component: Worth 10 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Stone
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 1, Earth 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: Up to three pebbles touched
\par Duration: 30 minutes or until discharged
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par The character transmutes up to three pebbles, which can be no larger than sling bullets, so that they strike with great force when thrown or slung. If hurled, they have a range increment of 20 feet. If slung, treat
 them as sling bullets (range increment 50 feet). The spell gives them a +1 enhancement bonus to attack and damage rolls. The creature using the stones makes a normal ranged attack to use a magic stone. Each magic stone that hits deals 1d6+1 points of dam
age (including the enhancement bonus). Against undead creatures, this damage is doubled (2d6+2 points).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Vestment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 3, Strength 3, War 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Armor or shield touched
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par The character imbues a suit of armor or a shield that the character touches with an enhancement bonus of +1 per three caster levels (maximum +5 at
 15th level). An outfit of regular clothing counts as a suit of armor that grants no AC bonus for purposes of this spell.
\par Note: An enhancement bonus increases armor\rquote s or a shield\rquote s benefit to the wearer\rquote s AC. A suit of armor cannot have more than +5 in total bonuses (even if some of its bonus is from other than enhancement).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magic Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1, War 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Weapon touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Magic weapon gives a weapon a +1 enhancement bonus to attack and damage rolls. If the character is a good cleric, the cleric of a good deity, or a paladin, the weapon is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures.
\par This spell cannot be cast on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Magnificent Mansion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Extradimensional mansion, up to three 10-ft. cubes/level (S)
\par Duration: 2 hours/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character conjures up an extradimensional dwelling that has a single entrance on the plane from which the spell was cast. The entry point looks like a faint shimmering in the air that is 4 feet wide and 8 feet high. Only those the character designates
 
may enter the mansion, and the portal is shut and made invisible behind the character when the character enters. The character may open it again from the character's own side at will. Once observers have passed beyond the entrance, they are in a magnifice
nt foyer with numerous chambers beyond. The atmosphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
\par The character can create any floor plan the character desires to the limit of the spell\rquote s effect. The place is furnished and contains sufficient foodstuffs to serve a nine-cou
rse banquet to a dozen people per caster level. There is a staff of near-transparent servants, liveried and obedient, to wait upon all who enter. The servants function as unseen servant spells except that they are visible and can go anywhere in the mansio
n. There are two such servants for each caster level.
\par Since the place can be entered only through its special portal, outside conditions do not affect the mansion, nor do conditions inside it pass to the plane beyond. Rest and relaxation within the place occurs as normal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving plant or mineral matter, up to 1 cu. ft./ level
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates a nonmagical, unattended object. The volume of the item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per caster level. The character must succeed at an appropriate skill check to make a complex item.
\par Attempting to use any created object as a material component causes the spell to fail.
\par The duration of the created item varies with its relative hardness and rarity:
\par Hardness and
\par Rarity Examples\tab \tab \tab \tab Duration
\par ---------------\tab \tab \tab \tab --------
\par Vegetable matter \tab \tab \tab 2 hours/level
\par Stone, crystal, base metals\tab \tab 1 hour/level
\par Precious metals \tab \tab \tab 20 minutes/level
\par Gems \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 10 minutes/level
\par Mithral \tab \tab \tab \tab 2 rounds/level
\par Adamantite\tab \tab \tab \tab 1 round/level
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, F\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)\line Effect: Visual figment that cannot extend beyond four 10-ft. cubes + one 10-ft. cube/level (S)\line Duration: Concentration + 3 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{This spell creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by the character. Sound, smell, and thermal illusions are included in the spell effect. While concentrating, the character can move the image within the range.
\par The image disappears when struck by an opponent unless the character causes the illusion to react appropriately.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Make Whole
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One object of up to 10 cu. ft./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Make whole completely repairs an object made of any substance, even one with multiple breaks or tears.  The r
epaired object is as strong as new. The spell does not restore the magical abilities of a broken magic item made whole, and it cannot mend broken magic rods, staffs, or wands. The spell does not repair items that have been warped, burned, disintegrated, g
round to powder, melted, or vaporized.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mark of Justice
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 5
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: Permanent (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character draws an indelible mark on the subject and states some behavior on the part of the subject that will activate the mark. When activated, the mark curses the subject. Typically, the character designates some sort of criminal behavior that acti
vates the mark, but the character can pick any act the character pleases. The effect of the mark set when casting.  Options are:
\par -6 effective decrease to an ability score (minimum 1). 
\par -4 enhancement penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, and skill checks. 
\par Each turn, the target has a 50% chance to act normally; otherwise, the target takes no action. 
\par The character may also invent the a new effect, but it should be no more powerful than those listed above, and the DM has final say on the effect.
\par Since this spell takes 10 minutes to cast and involves writing on the target, the character can cast only it on someone who is willing or restrained.
\par Mark of justice cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed with a break enchantment, limited wish, mi
racle, remove curse, or wish spell. Remove curse, however, works only if the caster is at least as high level as the character's mark of justice. These restrictions apply regardless of whether the mark has activated.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Charm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This
 charm affects a number of creatures whose combined HD do not exceed twice the character's level (or at least one creature regardless of HD). If there are more potential targets than the character can affect, the character chooses them one at a time until
 the character chooses a creature with too many HD.
\par The targets regard the character as a trusted friend and ally. If the creatures are currently being threatened or attacked by the character or the character's allies, however, they receive a +5 bonus on their saving throw.
\par The spell does not enable the character to control the charmed creatures as if they were automatons, but the subjects perceives the character's words and actions in the most favorable way. The character can try to give the subjects orders
, but the character must win an opposed Charisma check to convince the subjects to do anything they wouldn\rquote 
t ordinarily do. (Retries not allowed.) A charmed creature never obeys suicidal or obviously harmful orders. Any act by the character or the characte
r's apparent allies that threatens the charmed creatures breaks the spell. Note also that the character must speak the creatures\rquote  language to communicate the character's commands, or else be good at pantomiming.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Haste
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures move and act more quickly than normal. This extra speed has several effects.
\par On their turn, the subjects may take an extra partial action, either before or after their regular action.
\par The subjects gain a +4 haste bonus to AC. The subjects lose this bonus whenever they would lose a dodge bonus.
\par The subjects can jump one and a half times as far as normal. This increase counts as an enhancement bonus.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Heal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 8, Drd 9, Healing 8
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One or more creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The character channels positive energy into creatures to wipe away disease and injury. It completely cures all diseases, blindness, deafness, hit point damage, and all temporary ability damage. It neutralizes poisons in the subject\rquote 
s system, so that no additional dam
age or effects are suffered. It offsets a feeblemind spell. It cures those mental disorders caused by spells or injury to the brain. Only a single application of the spell is needed to simultaneously achieve all these effects.
\par Heal does not remove negative levels, restore permanently drained levels, or restore permanently drained ability scores.
\par If used against undead creatures (requires a successful touch attack), mass heal reduces them to 1d4 hp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Invisibility
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Targets: Any number of creatures, no two of which can be more than 180 ft. apart
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None or Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless, object)
\par The group of creatures targeted vanish from sight, even from darkvision. If the recipients are carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. Individuals in the group cannot see each other , unless they can normally see invisible things or employ magic to do so.

\par Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing or pouches worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a sour
ce of light can become so (thus, the effect is that of a light with no visible source). Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible, such as a trailing rope.
\par The subjects are not magically silence
d, and certain other conditions can render the recipients detectable (such as stepping in a puddle). The spell ends if anyone in the group attacks any creature. For purposes of this spell, an "attack" includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or ef
fect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character\rquote 
s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If the subject attacks directly it immediately becomes vis
ible along with all its gear. Note that spells such that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
\par The spell is broken for any individual who moves more than 180 feet from the neare
st member of the group. (If only two individuals are affected, the one moving away from the other one loses its invisibility. If both are moving away from each other, they both become visible when the distance between them exceeds 80 feet.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Suggestion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, M\line Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 hour/level or until completed\line Saving Throw: Will negates\line Spell Resistance: Yes}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{As suggestion, except that it can affect more creatures. The same suggestion applies to all these creatures.
\par The character influences the actions of the enchanted creatures by sug
gesting a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two). The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the activity sound reasonable.  The same suggestion applies to all targeted creatures.
\par The suggested course of activity can continue for 
the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subjects finish what they were asked to do. The character can instead specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. I
f the condition is not met before the spell expires, the activity is not performed.
\par A very reasonable suggestion causes the save to be made with a penalty (such as \endash 1, \endash 2, etc.) at the discretion of the DM.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Maze
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation) [Force]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character conjures up an extradimensional labyrinth of force planes, and the subject vanishes into it. If the subject attempts to escape, the time it takes to find the way out depends on its Intelligence score:
\par Intelligence Score\tab Time Trapped
\par of Mazed Creature\tab in Maze
\par ------------------\tab ------------
\par Under 3 \tab \tab 2d4 minutes
\par 3 \tab \tab \tab 1d6 minutes
\par 4\endash 5 \tab \tab \tab 1d4 minutes
\par 6\endash 8 \tab \tab \tab 5d4 rounds
\par 9\endash 12 \tab \tab \tab 4d4 rounds
\par 13\endash 15 \tab \tab \tab 3d4 rounds
\par 16\endash 17 \tab \tab \tab 2d4 rounds
\par 18+ \tab \tab \tab 1d4 rounds
\par If the subject doesn\rquote t attempt to escape, the maze disappears after 10 minutes, forcing the subject to leave.
\par On leaving the maze, the subject reappears in the spot it had been in when the maze spell was cast. If this spot is filled with a solid object, the subject appears nearby.
\par Spells and abilities that move a creature within a plane do not help a creature escape a maze spell, although the character can escape by using spells to the plane.
\par Minotaurs are not affected by this spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Meld into Stone
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 3, Drd 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Meld into stone enables the character to mel
d the character's body and possessions into a single block of stone. The stone must be large enough to accommodate the character's body in all three dimensions. When the casting is complete, the character and not more than 100 pounds of nonliving gear mer
ge with the stone. If either condition is violated, the spell fails and is wasted.
\par While in the stone, the character remains in contact with the face of the stone through which the character melded. The character remains aware of the passage of time and can
 cast spells on him or herself while hiding in the stone. Nothing that goes on outside the stone can be seen, but the character can still hear what happens around the character. Minor physical damage to the stone does not harm the character, but its parti
al destruction to the extent that the character no longer fits within it expels the character and deals the character 5d6 points of damage. The stone\rquote 
s complete destruction expels the character and slays the character instantly unless the character succeeds at a Fortitude save (DC 18).
\par At any time before the duration expires, the character can step out of the stone through the surface that the character entered. If the spell\rquote s duration runs out or the effect is dispelled before the character voluntarily exit
s the stone, the character is violently expelled and takes 5d6 points of damage.
\par The following spells harm the character if cast upon the stone that the character is occupying: Stone to flesh expels the character and deals the character 5d6 points of damag
e. Stone shape deals the character 3d6 points of damage but does not expel the character. Transmute rock to mud expels the character and then slays the character instantly unless the character succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 18), in which case the charact
er is merely expelled.  Passwall expels the character without damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mending
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Target: One object of up to 1 pound
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Mending repairs small breaks or tears in objects (not warps). In metallic objects, it will weld a broken ring, a chain link, a medallion, or a slender dagger, providing but one brea
k exists. Ceramic or wooden objects with multiple breaks can be invisibly rejoined to be as strong as new. A hole in a leather sack or wineskin is completely healed over by mending. The spell can repair a magic item, but the item\rquote 
s magical abilities are not restored. The spell cannot mend broken magic rods, staffs, or wands.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Message
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Language-Dependent]
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: One creature/level
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character can whisper messages and receive whispered replies with little chance of being overheard. The character points a finger at each creature to be included in the spell effect. When the 
character whispers, the whispered message is audible to all of the targeted creatures who are within range. Magical silence, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal (or a thin sheet of lead), or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks the spell. The message, howeve
r, does not have to travel in a straight line. It can circumvent a barrier if there is an open path between the character and the subject, and the path\rquote s entire length lies within the spell\rquote 
s range. The creatures who receive the message can whisper a reply that the character hears. The spell transmits sound, not meaning. It doesn\rquote t transcend language barriers.
\par Note: To speak a message, the character must mouth the words and whisper, possibly allowing trained rogues the opportunity to read the character's lips.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Meteor Swarm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: Pattern of fireball-like spreads (see text)
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None or Reflex half (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par When the character casts this spell, either four large spheres (2-foot-diameter) or eight small spheres (1-foot-diameter) spring from the character's outstretched hand and streak in a straight line to the spot the character selects. 
\par Any creature in the straight-line path of these spheres is struck by each one and takes 24d6 points of fire damage (no save).
\par If the spheres reach their destination, each bursts in a spread.
\par Each large sphere deals 6d6 points of fire damage. The four spheres explode with their points of origin forming a diamond or box pattern around the spell\rquote 
s central point of origin, which the character designates upon casting. Each large sphere has a 15-foot-radius spread, and each blast is 20 feet apart along the sides of the pattern, creating overlapping areas of the spell\rquote 
s effect and exposing the center to all four blasts.
\par The smaller spheres each have a 7 1/2-foot-radius spread, and each deals 3d6 points of fire damage. They explode with their points of origin forming a pattern around the spell\rquote 
s central point of origin (which the character designated upon casting) of a box within a diamond or vice versa, with each of the outer sides measuring 20 feet long. The center has four areas of overlapping effect, and numerous
 peripheral areas have two or three overlapping areas of the spell\rquote s effect.
\par Creatures caught in a blast can attempt Reflex saves for half damage. Creatures struck by multiple blasts save against each blast separately.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Blank
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Protection 8, Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: 1 day
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The subject is protected from all devices and spells
 that detect, influence, or read emotions or thoughts. This spell protects against all mind-affecting spells and effects as well as information gathering by divination spells or effects. Mind blank even foils limited wish, miracle, and wish when they are 
used in such a way as to affect the subject\rquote s mind or to gain information about him. In the case of scrying that scans an area that the creature is in the spell works but the creature simply isn\rquote 
t detected. Scrying attempts that are targeted specifically at the subject do not work at all.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Fog
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Fog that spreads to fill a 20-ft. cube
\par Duration: 30 minutes/+2d6 rounds (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Mind fog produces a bank of fog that weakens the mental resistance of those caught in it. Creatures in the mind fog suffer a \endash 10 competence penalty to all Wisdom c
hecks and Will saves. (A creature who successfully saves against the fog is not affected and need not make further saves even if it remains in the fog.) Affected creatures suffer the penalty as long as they remain in the fog and for 2d6 rounds thereafter.
 The fog itself is stationary and lasts for 30 minutes (or until dispersed by wind).
\par The fog is thin and does not significantly hamper vision.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 minute
\par Range: 0 ft.
\par Effect: Unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving plant matter, up to 1 cu. ft./ level
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates a nonmagical, unattended object of nonliving, vegetable matter. The volume of the item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per caster level. The character must succeed at an appropriate skill check to make a complex item.
\par Attempting to use any created object as a material component causes the spell to fail.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Globe of Invulnerability
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Area: 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par An immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere surrounds the character and excludes all spell effects of up to 3rd level. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the minor globe of invulnerability. Such spells fail to affect any
 
target located within the globe. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from devices. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the magical globe. Spells of 4th level and higher are not affected by the globe. Th
e globe can be brought down by a targeted dispel magic spell, but not by an area dispel magic. The character can leave and return to the globe without penalty.
\par Note that spell effects are not disrupted unless their effects enter the globe, and even then they are merely suppressed, not dispelled. 
\par If a given spell has more than one level depending on which character class is casting it, use the level appropriate to the caster to determine whether minor globe of invulnerability stops it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, F\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)\line Effect: Visual figment that cannot extend beyond four 10-ft. cubes + one 10-ft. cube/level (S)\line Duration: Concentration+2 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by the character. The spell includes some minor sounds but not understandable speech.
\par The illusion does not create smell, texture, or temperature. The character can move the image within the limits of the size of the effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Miracle
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Clr 9, Luck 9
\par Components: V, S, XP (see text)
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character doesn\rquote t so much cast a miracle as request one. The character states what the character would like to have happen and requests that th
e character's deity (or the power the character prays to for spells) intercede. The DM then determines the particular effect of the miracle.
\par A miracle can do any of the following:
\par Duplicate any cleric spell of up to 8th level (including spells to which the character has access because of the character's domains). 
\par Duplicate any other spell of up to 7th level. 
\par Undo the harmful effects of certain spells. 
\par Have any effect whose power level is in line with the above effects. 
\par If the miracle has any of the above effects, casting it carries no experience point cost.
\par Alternatively, the cleric can make a very powerful request. Casting such a miracle costs the cleric 5,000 XP because of the powerful divine energies involved. A request that is out of line with the deity\rquote s (or alignment\rquote s) nature is refused.

\par A duplicated spell allows saving throws and SR as normal (but save DCs are for a 9th-level spell). When a miracle duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, the character must pay that cost. When a miracle spell dupli
cates a spell with a material component that costs more than 100 gp, the character must provide that component.
\par XP Cost: 5,000 XP (for some uses of the miracle spell; see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mirage Arcana
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: One 20-ft. cube/level (S)
\par Duration: Concentration+1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character makes any area appear to be something other than it is. The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and olfactory elements. The spell can alter the appearance of structures (or add them where none are present). It can\rquote 
t disguise, conceal, or add creatures (though creatures within the area might hide themselves within the illusion just as they can hide themselves within a real location).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mirror Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal (see text)
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Several illusory duplicates of the character pop into being, making it difficult for enemies to know which target to attack. The figments stay near the character and disappear when struck.
\par Mirror image creates 1d4 images plus one i
mage per three caster levels (maximum eight images). These figments separate from the character and remain in a cluster, each within 5 feet of at least one other figment or the character. The character can move into and through a mirror image. When the ch
aracter and the mirror image separate, observers can\rquote t use vision or hearing to tell which one is the character and which the image. The figments may also move through each other. The figments mimic the character's actions.
\par Enemies attempting to attack the 
character or cast spells at the character must select from among indistinguishable targets. Generally, roll randomly to see whether the selected target is real or a figment. Any successful attack roll against a figment destroys it. A figment\rquote 
s AC is 10 + size modifier + Dexterity modifier. Figments seem to react normally to area spells.
\par While moving, the character can merge with and split off from figments so that enemies who have learned which image is real are again confounded.
\par An attacker must be able to
 see the images to be fooled. If the character is invisible or an attacker shuts her eyes, the spell has no effect, though being unable to see carries the same penalties as being blinded: In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50
% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, grants a +2 bonus to attackers\rquote  attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a \endash 
4 penalty on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Misdirection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature or object, up to a 10-ft. cube in size
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par By means of this spell, the character misdirects the information from divination spells that reveal auras. On casting the spell, the character chooses another object within range. For the duration of the spell, the subject of m
isdirection is detected as if it were the other object. Detection spells provide information based on the second object rather than on the actual target of the detection unless the caster of the detection succeeds at his save.
\par This spell does not affect other types of divination.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mislead
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment, Glamer)
\par Level: Brd 5, Luck 6, Sor/Wiz 6, Trickery 6
\par Components: S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target/Effect: The character/one illusory double
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None/Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par An illusory double of the character (a figment) appears, and at the same time, the character becomes invisible. The character vanishes from sight, even 
from darkvision. If the character is carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. Items dropped or put down by the invisible character become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing or pouches worn by the character. Light, however, never 
becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so (thus, the effect is that of a light with no visible source). Any part of an item that the character carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible.
\par The character is not magically silenced, and certain other conditions can render the character detectable (such as stepping in a puddle).
\par The character is then free to go elsewhere while the character's double moves away. The double appears within range but thereafter moves according
 to the character's intent at the time of casting. The character can make the figment appear superimposed perfectly over the character's own body so that observers don\rquote 
t notice an image appearing and the character turning invisible. The character and the f
igment can then move in different directions. The double moves at the character's speed, can talk and gesture as if it were real, and even smells and feels real. The double cannot attack or cast spells, but it can pretend to do so.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mnemonic Enhancer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M, F
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: Instantaneous 
\par The character prepares or retains additional spells. In either event, the spell or spells prepared or retained fade after 24 hours (if not cast).
\par Pick one of these two versions:
\par Prepare: the character prepares up to three additional levels of spells. A cantrip counts as one-half level for these purposes. The character prepares and casts these spells normally. 
\par Retain: the character retains any spell up to 3rd level that the character had cast up to 1 round before the character started casting the mnemonic enhancer. This restores the previously cast spell to the character's mind. 
\par Focus: Worth at least 50 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Modify Memory
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion)
\par [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action (see text)
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character reachs into the subject\rquote s mind and modifies up to 5 minutes of her memory in one of the following ways:
\par Eliminate all memory of an event the subject actually experienced. This spell cannot negate spells that affect the subject\rquote s mind. 
\par Allow the subject to recall with perfect clarity an event the subject actually experienced. Change the details of an event the subject actually experienced. 
\par Implant a memory of an event the subject never experienced. 
\par Casting the spell takes 1 action. If the su
bject fails to save, the character proceeds with the spell by spending up to 5 minutes (a period of time equal to the amount of memory time the character want to modify) visualizing the memory the character wishes to modify in the subject. If the characte
r's concentration is disturbed before the visualization is complete, or if the subject is ever beyond the spell\rquote s range during this time, the spell is lost.
\par A modified memory does not necessarily affect the subject\rquote s actions, particularly if it contradicts 
her natural inclinations. An illogical modified memory is dismissed by the subject as a bad dream or a memory muddied by too much wine. More useful applications of modify memory include implanting memories of friendly encounters with the character (inclin
i
ng the subject to act favorably toward the character), changing the details of orders given to the subject by a superior, or causing the subject to forget that she ever saw the character or the character's party. The DM reserves the right to decide whethe
r a modified memory is too nonsensical to significantly affect the subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mount
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Summoning)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 full round
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: One mount
\par Duration: 2 hours/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character summons a light horse or a pony (the character's choice) to serve the character as a mount. The steed serves willingly and well. The mount comes with a bit and bridle and a riding saddle.
\par 
\par }{\i Move Earth
\par }{Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: See text
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: Dirt in an area up to 750 ft. square and up to 10 ft. deep (S)
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Move earth moves dirt, possibly collapsing embankments, moving hillocks, shifting dunes, etc. However, in no event can rock formations be collapsed or moved. The area to be affected determines the casting time. For every 150-foot square (up to 10 feet dee
p), casting takes 10 minutes. The maximum area, 750 feet by 750 feet, takes 4 hours and 10 minutes to move.
\par This spell does not violently break the surface of the ground. Instead, it creates wavelike crests and troughs, with the earth reacting with glacierl
ike fluidity until the desired result is achieved. Trees, structures, rock formations, and such are mostly unaffected except for changes in elevation and relative topography.
\par The spell cannot be used for tunneling and is generally too slow to trap or bury creatures. Its primary use is for digging or filling moats or for adjusting terrain contours before a battle.
\par }}