{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{
\s16\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext17 HTML Preformatted;}}{\info{\title Spells (G)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy8\hr10\min50}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min19}{\version45}{\edmins86}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords6505}{\nofchars37079}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws45535}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (G)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Gaseous Form
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Air 3, Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Willing corporeal creature touched
\par Duration: 2 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The subject and all the subject\rquote s gear become insubstantial, misty, and translucent. The subject gains damage reduction 20/+1. The subject\rquote s material armor (including natural armor) becomes worthless, though the subject\rquote 
s size, Dexterity, deflection bonuses, and armor bonuses from force armor still apply. The subject becomes immune to poison and critical hits. The subject can\rquote t attack
 or cast spells with verbal, somatic, material, or focus components while in gaseous form. (Note that this does not rule out certain spells that the subject may have prepared using the metamagic feats Silent Spell and Still Spell.) The subject loses super
natural abilities while in gaseous form. If the subject has a touch spell ready to use, it is discharged harmlessly when the spell takes effect.
\par The gaseous creature can\rquote t run but can fly (speed 10, maneuverability perfect). The subject can pass through sma
ll holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks, with all the subject was wearing or holding, as long as the spell persists. The gaseous creature is subject to wind. The subject can\rquote t enter water or other liquid.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Gate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation, Calling)
\par Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: See text
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Casting a gate spell has two effects. First, it creates an interdimensional connection between the character's plane of existence and the plane desired, allowing travel between the planes in either direction. Second, the character may then call a particul
ar individual or type of being through the gate. The gate itself is a circular hoop or disk from 5 to 20 feet in diameter (caster\rquote 
s choice), oriented in the direction the character desires when it comes into existence. It is a two-dimensional window into th
e plane the character named, and anyone or anything that moves through is shunted instantly to the other side. The gate has a front and a back. Creatures moving through the gate from the front are transported to another plane; creatures moving through it 
from the back are not.
\par Planar Travel: The gate opens precisely at the point on the destination plane that the character desires (a creation effect). Note that deities and other beings who rule a planar realm can prevent a gate from opening in their presence
 or personal demesnes if they so desire. Anyone who chooses to step through the portal is transported. A gate cannot be opened to another point on the same plane; the spell works only for interplanar travel.
\par The character may hold the gate open only for a brief time (no more than 1 round per caster level) and must concentrate on doing so or sever the interplanar connection.
\par Calling Creatures: The second effect of the gate spell is to call an extraplanar creature to the character's aid (a calling effect). By
 naming a particular being or type of being as the character casts the spell, the character may cause the gate to open in the immediate vicinity of the desired creature and pull the subject through, willing or unwilling. Deities and unique beings are unde
r no compulsion to come through the gate, although they may choose to do so of their own accord. This use of the spell creates a gate that remains open just long enough to transport the called creatures.
\par If the character chooses to call a type of being inst
ead of a known individual the character may call either a single creature (of any HD) or several creatures. If several creatures, the character can call and control them as long as their HD total does not exceed the character's caster level. In the case o
f a single creature, the character can control it if its HD does not exceed twice the character's caster level. A single creature with more than twice the character's caster level in HD can\rquote 
t be controlled. Deities and unique beings cannot be controlled in any event. An uncontrolled being acts as it pleases, making the calling of such creatures rather dangerous. An uncontrolled being may return to its home plane at any time.
\par A controlled creature can be commanded to perform a service for the character. These
 fall into two categories: immediate tasks and contractual service. Fighting for the character in a single battle or taking any other actions that can be accomplished within 1 round per caster level counts as an immediate task; the character need not make
 any agreement or pay any reward for the creature\rquote s help. The creature departs at the end of the spell.
\par If the character chooses to exact a longer or more involved form of service from the called creature, the character must offer some fair trade in return 
for that service. The service exacted must be reasonable with respect to the promised favor or reward. In general, a gift of 100 gp per HD of the called creature per day of service is reasonable. (Some creatures want their payment in things other than coi
n
, which may involve complications.) Immediately upon completion of the service, the being is transported to the character's vicinity, and the character must then and there turn over the promised reward. After this is done, the creature is instantly freed 
to return to its own plane.
\par Failure to fulfill the promise to the letter results in the character's being subjected to service by the creature or by its liege and master, at the very least. At worst, the creature or its kin may attack the character.
\par Note: When the character uses a calling spell such as gate to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it becomes a spell of that type. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Geas/Quest
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 day/level or until discharged (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A geas places a magical command on a creature to carr
y out some service or to refrain from some action or course of activity, as desired by the character. The creature must be able to understand the character. While a geas cannot compel a creature to kill itself or perform acts that would result in certain 
d
eath, it can cause almost any other course of activity. The geased creature must follow the given instructions until the geas is completed, no matter how long it takes. If the instructions involve some open-ended task that the recipient cannot complete th
rough his own actions, the spell remains in effect for a maximum of 1 day per caster level. Note that a clever recipient can subvert some instructions. 
\par If the subject is prevented from obeying the geas for a whole day, the subject takes 3d6 points of damag
e each day he does not attempt to follow the geas/quest. Additionally, each day he must make a Fortitude saving throw or sicken. A sickened creature moves at half his normal speed and suffers \endash 
4 penalties on both Strength and Dexterity. He heals damage at 
one-tenth his normal rate and cannot benefit from any magical healing effects. A sickened creature must make a Fortitude save each day or become crippled. Once crippled, the subject is effectively disabled (as if he had 0 hit points) and can\rquote 
t choose to take strenuous actions. These effects end 1 day after the creature attempts to resume the geas/quest.
\par A geas (and all penalties) can be ended by limited wish, remove curse (only if the remove curse\rquote s caster level is at least two higher than the character\rquote s caster level), miracle, or wish. Dispel magic does not affect a geas.
\par Wizard and bards usually refer to this spell as geas, while clerics call the same spell quest.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Gentle Repose
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Corpse touched
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par The character preserves the remains of a dead creature so that they do not decay. Doing so extends the time limit on raising that creature from the dead. Days spent under the influence of this spell don\rquote t count against the time limit. 
\par The spell also works on severed body parts and the like.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ghost Sound
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Illusory sounds
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Ghost sound allows the character to create a volume of sound that 
rises, recedes, approaches, or remains at a fixed place. The character chooses what type of sound the spell creates when casting the spell and cannot thereafter change its basic character. The volume of sound created, however, depends on the character's l
e
vel. The character can produce as much noise as four normal humans per caster level (maximum twenty humans). Thus, talking, singing, shouting, walking, marching, or running sounds can be created. The noise a ghost sound spell produces can be virtually any
 
type of sound within the volume limit. A horde of rats running and squeaking is about the same volume as eight humans running and shouting. A roaring lion is equal to the noise from sixteen humans, while a roaring dire cat is equal to the noise from twent
y humans.
\par Note that ghost sound can enhance the effectiveness of a silent image spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Ghoul Touch
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living humanoid touched
\par Duration: 1d6+2 rounds
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Imbuing the character with negative energy, this spell allows the character to paralyze a single humanoid for 1d6+2 rounds with a successful melee touch attack. Additionally, the paralyzed subject exude
s a carrion stench that causes retching and nausea in a 10-foot radius. Those in the radius (excluding the character) must make a Fortitude save or suffer a \endash 
2 penalty to all attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks until the spell ends.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Giant Vermin
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Clr 4, Drd 4
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: Up to three vermin, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character turns one or more normal-sized insects, arachnids, or other vermin into larger forms resembling giant vermin. Only one type of vermin can be transmuted, and all must be grown to the same number of HD. h
e HD to which the vermin can be grown depends upon the character's level; see the accompanying table.
\par 
\par Caster\tab Target\rquote s\tab New\tab Armor\tab Attack/\tab \tab \tab \endash \emdash \emdash \endash \emdash \emdash  Saves \endash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash \emdash 
\par Level\tab New HD\tab \tab Size\tab Class\tab Damage\tab \tab Fortitude\tab Reflex\tab \tab Will
\par ------\tab -------- \tab ----\tab -----\tab -------\tab \tab ---------\tab ------\tab \tab ----
\par 7\endash 9 \tab 3d8+6 \tab \tab Large \tab 14 \tab +4/1d8+4\tab +5 \tab \tab +0 \tab \tab +1
\par 10\endash 12 \tab 4d8+16 \tab \tab Huge \tab 14 \tab +8/2d6+8 \tab +8 \tab \tab +0 \tab \tab +1
\par 13\endash 15 \tab 5d8+20 \tab \tab Huge \tab 14 \tab +8/2d6+8 \tab +8 \tab \tab +0 \tab \tab +1
\par 16\endash 18 \tab 6d8+24 \tab \tab Huge \tab 14 \tab +9/2d6+8 \tab +9 \tab \tab +1 \tab \tab +2
\par 19\endash 20 \tab 7d8+28 \tab \tab Huge \tab 14 \tab +9/2d6+8 \tab +9 \tab \tab +1 \tab \tab +2
\par Any giant vermin created by this spell do not attempt to harm the character, but the character's control of such creatures is limited to simple. Orders to attack a certain creature when it appears or guard against a particular occurrence are too compl
ex for the vermin to understand. Unless commanded to do otherwise, the giant vermin attack whoever or whatever is near them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Glitterdust
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Area: Creatures and objects within 10-ft. spread
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (blinding only)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par A cloud of glittering golden particles covers everyone and everything in the ar
ea, blinding creatures and visibly outlining invisible things. Blindness lasts for the duration of the spell. All within the area are covered by the dust, which cannot be removed and continues to sparkle until it fades.
\par In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, grants a +2 bonus to opponents\rquote 
 attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a \endash 4 penalty on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Globe of Invulnerability
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: 10 ft.\line Area: 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on the character\line Duration: 1 round/level\line Saving Throw: None\line Spell Resistance: No
\par An immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere surrounds the character and excludes all spells effects of up to 4rd level. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the minor globe of invulnerability. Su
ch spells fail to affect any target located within the globe. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from devices. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the magical globe. Spells of 5th level and higher are 
not affected by the globe. The globe can be brought down by a targeted dispel magic spell, but not by an area dispel magic. The character can leave and return to the globe without penalty.}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{Note that spell effects are not disrupted unless their effects enter the globe, and even then they are merely suppressed, not dispelled.  
\par If a given spell has more than one level depending on which character class is casting it, use the level appropriate to the caster to determine whether minor globe of invulnerability stops it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Glyph of Warding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 3
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target or Area: Object touched or up to 5 sq. ft./level
\par Duration: Permanent until discharged
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This inscription harms those who enter, pass, or open the warded area or object. 
\par The character set the conditions of the ward. Typically, any creature violating the warded area without speaking a pass phrase (which the character set when casting the spell
) is subject to the magic it stores. Glyphs can be set according to physical characteristics  or creature type, subtype, or species. Glyphs can also be set with respect to good, evil, law, or chaos, or to pass those of the character's religion. They canno
t
 be set according to class, HD, or level. Glyphs respond to invisible creatures normally but are not triggered by those who travel past them ethereally. Multiple glyphs cannot be cast on the same area. However, discrete areas of one object can be separate
ly warded.
\par The glyph can be placed to conform to any shape up to the limitations of the character's total square footage. When the spell is completed, the glyph becomes nearly invisible.
\par Glyphs cannot be affected or bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled. Mislead, polymorph, and nondetection can fool a glyph.
\par Read magic allows the character to identify a glyph of warding with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 13). Identifying the glyph does not discharge it and al
lows the character to know the basic nature of the glyph (version, type of damage caused, what spell is stored).
\par Depending on the version selected, a glyph either blasts the intruder or activates a spell.
\par Blast Glyph: A blast deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels to the intruder and to all within 5 feet of the intruder (maximum 5d8). This damage is acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic (caster\rquote 
s choice, made at time of casting). Those affected can make Reflex saves to take half damage.
\par Spell Gl
yph: The character can store any harmful spell of up to 3rd level that the character knows. All level-dependent features of the spell are based on the character's level at the time of casting. If the spell has targets, it targets the intruder. If the spel
l
 has an area or an amorphous effect (such as a cloud), the area or effect is centered on the intruder. If the spell summons creatures, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack. All saving throws operate as normal, except that the DC is 
based on the level of the glyph.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 200 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Goodberry
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: 2d4 fresh berries touched
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Casting goodberry upon a handful of freshly picked berries makes 2d4 of them magical. The character (as well as any other caster of the same faith and 3rd or higher level) can immediately discern which berries are affected. Each enchanted berry
 nourishes a creature as if it were a normal meal for a Medium-size creature. The berry also cures 1 point of damage when eaten, subject to a maximum of 8 points of such curing in any 24-hour period.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Grasping Hand
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Strength 7
\par Components: V, S, F/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: 10-ft. hand
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Creates a Large magic hand that appears between the character and one opponent. This floating, disembodied hand then moves to remain between the two, regardless of where the character moves or how the opponent tries to get around it.  
\par The hand can grapple
 one opponent that the character selects. The grasping hand gets one grappling attack per round. Its attack bonus to make contact is the character's level + the character's Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma modifier (for wizards, clerics, and sorcerers, r
espectively), +10 for the hand's Strength score (31), -1 for being Large. Its grapple check is this same figure, except with +4 for being Large instead of -1. It holds but does not harm creatures it grapples.
\par The hand can also bull rush an opponent.  The ha
nd pursues and pushes away the opponent that the character designates. Treat this as a bull rush with a +16 bonus on the Strength check (+10 for Strength 31, +4 for being Large, and +2 for charging bonus, which it always gets). The hand always moves with 
the opponent to push him back the full distance allowed, and it has no speed limit.
\par A very strong creature could not push the hand out of its way, but it could push the hand up against the character by successfully bull rushing the hand.
\par The hand can interp
ose itself between the caster and the opponent.  Interposing provides nine-tenths cover (+10 AC) for the character against that opponent. Nothing can fool the hand-it sticks with the selected opponent in spite of darkness, invisibility, polymorphing, or a
ny other attempt to hide or disguise himself. The hand does not pursue an opponent, however.
\par The hand is 10 feet long and about that wide with its fingers outstretched. It has as many hit points as the character when undamaged, and its AC is 20 (-1 size, +1
1 natural). It takes damage as a normal creature, but most magical effects that don't cause damage do not affect it. The hand cannot push through a wall of force or enter an antimagic field. It suffers the full effects of a prismatic wall or prismatic sph
ere. The hand makes saving throws as its caster. Disintegrate or a successful dispel magic destroys the hand.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Grease
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target or Area: One object or a 10-ft. x 
\par 10-ft. square
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par A grease spell covers a solid surface with a layer of slippery grease. Any creature entering the area or caught in it when the spell is ca
st must make a successful Reflex save or slip, skid, and fall. Those that successfully save can move at half speed across the surface. However, those that remain in the area must each make a new saving throw every round to avoid falling and to be able to 
move. The DM should adjust saving throws by circumstance.
\par The spell can also be used to create a greasy coating on an item. Material objects not in use are always affected by this spell, while objects wielded or employed by creatures receive a Reflex saving
 throw to avoid the effect. If the initial saving throw fails, the creature immediately drops the item. A saving throw must be made each round the creature attempts to pick up or use the greased item.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Command
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Clr 5
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character gives the subject a one-word command, which the subject obeys to the best of his or her ability. A very reasonable command causes the subject to suffer a penalty on the saving throw (from \endash 1 to \endash 4, at the DM\rquote s discretion
). A command of \'93Die\'94 causes the subject to fake death. A command of "Suicide" fails because "suicide" is generally used as a noun, not as a command.
\par At the start of each commanded creature\rquote s action after the first, it gets another Will save to attempt to break free from the spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Dispelling
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Brd 5, Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target or Area: One spellcaster, creature, or object; or 30-ft.-radius burst
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character can use greater dispelling to end ongoing spells that have been cast on a creature or object, to temporarily suppress the magical abilities of a magic item, to end ongoing spells (or
 at least their effects) within an area, or to counter another spellcaster\rquote s spell. A dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. Some spells, as detailed in their descriptions, can\rquote 
t be defeated by greater dispelling. Greater dispelling can dispe
l (but not counter) the ongoing effects of supernatural abilities as well as spells. Greater dispelling affects spell-like effects just as it affects spells. Greater dispelling has a chance to dispel any effect that remove curse can remove.
\par Note: The effects of spells with instantaneous duration can\rquote t be dispelled, because the magic effect is already over before the greater dispelling can take effect.
\par The character choose to use greater dispelling in one of three ways: a targeted dispel, an area dispel, or a counterspell:
\par Targeted Dispel: One object, creature, or spell is the target of the spell. The character makes a dispel check against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in effect on the object or creature. A dispel check is 1d20 +1 per cast
er level (maximum +20) against a DC of 11 + the spell\rquote s caster level.
\par If the spellcaster targets an object or creature who is the effect of an ongoing spell (such as a monster summoned by monster summoning), she makes a dispel check to end the spell that conjured the object or creature.
\par If the object that the character targets is a magic item, the character makes a dispel check against the item\rquote s caster level. If the character succeeds, all the item\rquote s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after 
which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. An interdimensional interface is temporarily closed. Remember that a magic item\rquote 
s physical properties are unchanged. Artifacts and creatures of demigod or higher status are unaffected by mortal magic such as this.
\par The character automatically succeeds at the dispel check against any spell that the character cast.
\par Area Dispel: The spell affects everything within a 30-foot radius.
\par For each creature who is the target of one or more spells, the character makes a dispel check against the spell with the highest caster level. If that fails, the character makes dispel checks against progressively weaker spells until the character dispels
 one spell (which discharges the dispel so far as that target is concerned) or fail all the character's checks. The creature\rquote s magic items are not affected.
\par For each object that is the target of one or more spells, the character makes dispel checks as with creatures. Magic items are not affected by area dispels.
\par For each ongoing area or effect spell centered within the greater dispelling\rquote s area, the character makes a dispel check to dispel the spell.
\par For each ongoing spell whose area overlaps that of the dispel, the character makes a dispel check to end the effect, but only within the area of the greater dispelling.
\par If an object or creature who is the effect of an ongoing spell, such as a monster summoned by monster summoning, is in the area, the character ma
kes a dispel check to end the spell that conjured the object or creature (returning it whence it came) in addition to attempting to dispel spells targeting the creature or object.
\par The character may choose to automatically succeed at dispel checks against any spell that the character cast.
\par Counterspell: The spell targets a spellcaster and is cast as a counterspell. Unlike a true counterspell, however, greater dispelling may not work. The character must make a dispel check to counter the other spellcaster\rquote s spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Glyph of Warding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Target or Area: Object touched or up to 5 sq. ft./level
\par Duration: Until discharged
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This inscription harms those who enter, pass, or open the warded area or object. 
\par The character set the conditions of the ward. Typically, any creature violating the warded area without speaking a pass phrase (which the character set when casting the spell) is 
subject to the magic it stores. Glyphs can be set according to physical characteristics  or creature type, subtype, or species. Glyphs can also be set with respect to good, evil, law, or chaos, or to pass those of the character's religion. They cannot be 
s
et according to class, HD, or level. Glyphs respond to invisible creatures normally but are not triggered by those who travel past them ethereally. Multiple glyphs cannot be cast on the same area. However, discrete areas of one object can be separately wa
rded.
\par The glyph can be placed to conform to any shape up to the limitations of the character's total square footage. When the spell is completed, the glyph becomes nearly invisible.
\par Glyphs cannot be affected or bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled. Mislead, polymorph, and nondetection can fool a glyph.
\par Read magic allows the character to identify a glyph of warding with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 16). Identifying the glyph does not discharge it and allows 
the character to know the basic nature of the glyph (version, type of damage caused, what spell is stored).
\par Depending on the version selected, a glyph either blasts the intruder or activates a spell.
\par Blast Glyph: A blast deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels to the intruder and to all within 5 feet of the intruder (maximum 10d8). This damage is acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic (caster\rquote 
s choice, made at time of casting). Those affected can make Reflex saves to take half damage.
\par Spell Glyph:
 The character can store any harmful spell of up to 6th level that the character knows. All level-dependent features of the spell are based on the character's level at the time of casting. If the spell has targets, it targets the intruder. If the spell ha
s
 an area or an amorphous effect (such as a cloud), the area or effect is centered on the intruder. If the spell summons creatures, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack. All saving throws operate as normal, except that the DC is base
d on the level of the glyph.
\par Material Component: Worth at least 400 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Magic Fang
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 3, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S, DF\line Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)\line Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{Greater magic fang gives one natural weapon of the subject a +1 enhancement bonus per three caster levels (maximum +5) to attack and damage rolls. The spell can a
ffect a slam attack, fist, bite, or other natural weapon. (The spell does not change an unarmed strike\rquote 
s damage from subdual damage to normal damage.) If the character is a good druid, the natural weapon is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Magic Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 3, Clr 4, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One weapon or fifty projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting)
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par This spell gives a weapon an enhancement bonus to attack and damage of +1 per three caster levels (maximum +5). An enhancement bonus does not stack with a masterwork weapon\rquote s +1 bonus on attacks.
\par Alternatively, the character can affect up to fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projectiles must all be of the same type, and they have to be together in one g
roup (such as in the same quiver). Projectiles (but not thrown weapons) lose their transmutation when used.
\par If the character is a good cleric, the cleric of a good deity, or a paladin, the weapon is considered blessed, which means it has special effects on certain creatures.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\qj \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Planar Ally
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Clr 8
\par Components: V, S, DF\line Casting Time: 10 minutes\line Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)\line Effect: Up to 24 HD worth of summoned elementals and outsiders, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart when they appear
\par Duration: Instantaneous\line Saving Throw: None\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{By casting this spell, the character requests the character's deity to send the character an elemental or outsider (of up to 24 HD), or a number of creatures of the same type whose HD do not total more than 24, of the deity\rquote 
s choice. If the character serves no particular deity, the spell is a general plea answered by a creature sharing the character's philosophical alignment. If the character knows an individual creature\rquote 
s name, the character may request that individual by speaking the name during the spell (though the character might get a different creature anyway).
\par The charac
ter may ask the creature to perform one task for the character, and the creature may request some service in return. If multiple creatures are called, the creatures, as a group, agree to perform one task for the character and request one favor in return. 
 
The more demanding the character's request, the greater return favor the creature asked for. This bargaining takes at least 1 round, so any actions by the creature begin in the round after they arrive. If the character agrees to the service, the creature 
performs the task the character requested, reports back to the character afterward (if possible), and returns to its home plane. The character is honor bound to perform the return favor.
\par A creature may accept some form of payment in return for its service. The creature may keep it or may deliver the item to another member of the character's religion somewhere else, where it can help the religion\rquote s cause.
\par Note: When the character uses a calling spell that calls an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Planar Binding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes\line Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)
\par Targets: Up to 24 HD worth of elementals and outsiders, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart when they appear
\par Duration: Instantaneous\line Saving Throw: Will negates\line Spell Resistance: Yes}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{Casting this spell attempts a dangerous act: to lure a creature or creatures from another plane to a specifically prepared trap, which must lie within the spell\rquote 
s range. The character may call a single creature of up to 24 HD or a number of creatures of the same type whose HD total no more than 24.  The called creature is held in the trap until it agrees 
to perform one service in return for its freedom. To create the trap, the character must use a magic circle spell, focused inward. The type of creature to be bound must be known and stated. If it has a specific, proper, or given name, this must be used in
 casting the spell.
\par The target creature must attempt a Will saving throw.  If more than one creature is called, each creature makes a saving throw. If the saving throw succeeds, the creature resists the spell. If the saving throw fails, the creature is imme
diately drawn to the trap (spell resistance does not keep the creature from being called). The creature can escape from the trap with a successful SR roll, dimensional travel, or a successful Charisma check (DC 18 + 1/2 the caster\rquote 
s level + the caster\rquote s Ch
arisma modifier). It can try each method once per day. Multiple creatures make individual escape attempts.  If it breaks loose, it can flee or attack the character. A dimensional anchor cast on the creature prevents its escape via dimensional travel. The 
character can also employ a calling diagram to make the trap more secure.
\par If the creature does not break free of the trap, the character can keep it bound for as long as the character dares. The character can attempt to compel the creature to perform a serv
ice by describing the service and perhaps offering some sort of reward. The character makes a Charisma check opposed by the creature\rquote 
s Charisma check. The DM then assigns a bonus based on the service and reward, from 0 to +6. This bonus applies to the char
acter's Charisma check. If the creature wins the opposed check, it refuses service. New offers, bribes, and the like can be made or the old ones reoffered every 24 hours. This can be repeated until the creature promises to serve, until it breaks free, or 
u
ntil the character decides to get rid of it by means of some other spell. If multiple creatures have been called, the caster must negotiate with each individually. Impossible demands or unreasonable commands are never agreed to. If the character rolls a 1
 on the Charisma check, the creature breaks free of the binding and can escape or attack the character.
\par Once the requested service is completed, the creature need only so inform the character to be instantly sent back whence it came. The creature might late
r seek revenge. If the character assigns some open-ended task that the creature cannot complete though its own actions, the spell remains in effect for a maximum of 1 day per caster level, and the creature gains an immediate chance to break free. Note tha
t a clever recipient can subvert some instructions.
\par When the character uses a calling spell to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Restoration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Healing)
\par Level: Clr 7
\par Components: V, S, XP
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch\line Target: Creature touched\line Duration: Instantaneous\line Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)\line Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{Greater restoration dispels any magical effects reducing one of the subject\rquote s ability scores, all magical effects penalizing the character\rquote 
s abilities, cures all temporary ability damage, and restores all points permanently drained from all ability scores. It also removes all forms of insanity, confusion, and similar mental effects. T
he spell dispels all negative energy levels afflicting the subject, restoring the creature to the highest level it had previously achieved. This reverses level drains by a force or creature. The drained levels are restored only if the time since the creat
ure lost the level is no more than 1 week per caster level.
\par Greater restoration does not restore levels or Constitution points lost due to death.
\par XP Cost: 500 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Scrying
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Brd 6, Clr 7, Drd 7, Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text\line Effect: Magical sensor
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par  The character can see and hear a creature, who may be at any distance. The character must succeed at a Scry check to do so. The d
ifficulty of the task depends on how well the character knows the subject and what sort of physical connection (if any) the character has to that creature. Furthermore, if the subject is on another plane, the character gets a \endash 
5 penalty on the Scry check.
\par Knowledge \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab DC
\par --------- \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab --
\par None* \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 20
\par Secondhand (the character has  heard of the subject)\tab \tab 15
\par Firsthand (the character has  met the subject)\tab \tab \tab 10
\par Familiar (the character know the subject well)\tab \tab \tab 5
\par *The character must have some sort of connection to a creature the character has no knowledge of. 
\par Connection \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Scry Check Bonus
\par ---------- \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------------
\par Likeness or picture \tab \tab \tab \tab +5
\par Possession or garment \tab \tab \tab \tab +8
\par Body part, lock of hair, nail clippings, etc. \tab +10
\par This spell creates a magical sensor located near the subject. Any creature with Intelligence 12 or higher can notice the sensor by making a Scry check (or an Intelligence check) against DC 20.
\par You may cast the following spells reliably through the sensor: comprehend languages, darkvision, detect chaos, detect evil, detect good, detect law, detect magic, message, read magic, and tongues.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Shadow Conjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Shadow)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: See text\line Effect: See text\line Duration: See text\line Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with); varies (see text)\line Spell Resistance: No (see text)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{The character uses material from the Plane of Shadow to shape quasi-real illusions of one or more creatures, objects, or forces. Shadow conjurati
on can mimic any sorcerer or wizard conjuration spell of 4rd level or lower. Shadow conjurations are actually two-fifths (40%) as strong as the real things, though creatures who believe the shadow conjurations to be real are affected by them at full stren
gth.
\par All those that interact with the conjured object, force, or creature can make Will saves to recognize its shadowy nature. Those who succeed do so.
\par Attack spells h
ave normal effects unless those affected succeed at Will saves. Each disbelieving creature takes only one-fifth damage from the attack. If the disbelieved attack has a special effect other than damage, that effect is two-fifths as strong (if applicable) o
r only 40% likely to occur. Mimicked spells allow the normal saves and SR.
\par Shadow objects or substances have normal effects except against those who disbelieve them. Against disbelievers, they are two-fifths strength or 40% likely to work.
\par Shadow creatures have two-fifths the normal hit points (regardless of whether they\rquote 
re recognized as shadowy). They deal normal damage and have all normal abilities and weaknesses. Against a creature who recognizes them as shadowy, however, such a creature\rquote s damage is two-f
ifths normal, and all special abilities that do not produce normal damage (in hit points) are only 40% likely to work. (Roll for each use and each affected character separately.) Furthermore, the shadow creature\rquote s AC bonuses are two-fifths normal.

\par Those who succeed at their saves see the shadow conjurations as transparent images superimposed on vague, shadowy forms.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Shadow Evocation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Shadow)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: See text\line Effect: See text\line Duration: See text\line Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: Yes}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{The character taps energy from the Plane of Shadow to cast a quasi-real, illusory version of a wizard or sorcerer evocation of 5th level or lower. (For a spell with more than
 one level, use the best one applicable to the character.) If recognized as a shadow evocation, a damaging spell deals only two-fifths (40%) of normal damage, with a minimum of 2 points per die of damage.. Regardless of the result of the save to disbeliev
e, affected creatures are also allowed any save the spell being simulated allows, but set the save DC according to shadow magic\rquote s level (6th) rather than the spell\rquote 
s normal level. Nondamaging effects are only 40% likely to work when the greater shadow evocation is recognized as mostly illusory (roll separately for each effect and each creature who recognizes the evocation as shadowy).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Guards and Wards
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M, F
\par Casting Time: 30 minutes (D)
\par Range: Anywhere within the area to be warded
\par Area: Up to 200 sq. ft./level (S)
\par Duration: 2 hours/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: See text
\par This powerful spell is primarily used to defend the character's stronghold. The ward protects 200 square feet per caster level. The wa
rded area can be up to 20 feet high, and shaped as the character desires. The character can ward several stories of a stronghold by dividing the area among them; the character must be somewhere within the area to be warded to cast the spell. The spell cre
ates the following magical effects within the warded area:
\par Fog: Fog fills all corridors, obscuring all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 5 feet has one-half concealment (attacks suffer a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away h
ave full concealment (50% miss chance; the attacker cannot use sight to locate the target). Spell resistance: No.
\par Arcane Locks: All doors in the warded area are arcane locked. Spell resistance: No.
\par Webs: Webs fill all stairs from top to bottom. These strands are identical with those created by the web spell, except that they regrow in 10 minutes if they are burned or torn away while the guards and wards spell lasts. Spell resistance: Yes.
\par Confusion: Where there are choices in direction\emdash such as a corridor intersection or side passage\emdash 
a minor confusion-type spell functions so as to make it 50% probable that intruders believe they are going in the exact opposite direction from the one they actually chose. This is an enchantment (mind-affecting) effect. Spell resistance: Yes.
\par Lost Doors: One door per caster level is covered by a glamer to appear as if it were a plain wall. Spell resistance: No.
\par In addition, the character can place the character's choice of one of the following five magical effects:
\par Dancing lights in four corridors. The character can designate a simple program that causes the lights to repeat as long as the guards and wards spell lasts. Spell resistance: No. 
\par A magic mouth in two places. Spell resistance: No. 
\par A stinking cloud in two places. The vapors appear in the places the character designate; they return within 10 minutes if dispersed by wind while the guards and wards spell lasts. Spell resistance: Yes. 
\par A gust of wind in one corridor or room. Spell resistance: Yes. 
\par A suggestion in one place. The character selects an area up to 5 feet square, and any creature who enters or passes through the area receives the suggestion mentally. Spell resistance: Yes. 
\par The whole warded area radiates strong magic of the abjuration school. A dispel magic cast on a specific effect, if successful, removes only that effect. A successful disjunction destroys the entire guards and wards effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Guidance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Clr 0, Drd 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute or until discharged
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell imbues the subject with a touch of divine guidance. The creature gets a +1 competence bonus on a single attack roll, saving throw, or skill check. It must choose to use the bonus before making the roll to which it applies.
\par 
\par }{\i Gust of Wind
\par }{Evocation
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: Gust of wind (10 ft. wide, 10 ft. high) emanating out from the character to the extreme of the range
\par Duration: 1 round
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell creates a strong blast of air that originates from the character and moves in the direction the cha
racter is facing. The force of this gust automatically extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish these lights. Creatures caught 
in the area may be affected. Any creature is entitled to a saving throw to ignore the gust\rquote s effects.
\par A gust of wind can do anything a sudden blast of wind would be expected to do.
\par }}