{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\info{\title Spells (P)}
{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy12\hr8\min44}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min17}{\version50}{\edmins98}{\nofpages25}{\nofwords8734}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \hich\af28\dbch\af28\loch\f28 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\fs20\ul\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SPELLS (P)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Passwall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: 5 ft. x 8 ft. opening, 1 ft./level deep
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates a passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, but not through metal or other harder materials. If the wall\rquote 
s thickness is more than 1 foot per caster level, then a single passwall simply makes a niche or short tunnel. Several passwall spells can then form a continuing passage to breach very thick walls. When passwall e
nds, creatures within the passage are ejected out the nearest exit. If someone dispels the passwall or the character dismisses it, creatures in the passage are ejected out the far exit if there is one or out the sole exit if there is only one.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Pass without Trace
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: One creature/level touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The subjects can move through any type of terrain and leave neither footprints nor scent. Tracking the subject is impossible by nonmagical means.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Permanency
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, XP
\par Casting Time: 2 rounds
\par Range: See text
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: Permanent (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell makes certain other spells permanent. Depending on the spell, the character must be at least a minimum level and must expend a number of XP.
\par The character can make these spells permanent in regard to his or her self:
\par Minimum 
\par Spell \tab \tab \tab Level \tab \tab XP Cost
\par ----- \tab \tab \tab ------- \tab -------
\par Comprehend languages \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Darkvision \tab \tab 10th \tab \tab 1,000 XP
\par Detect magic \tab \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Protection from arrows \tab 11th \tab \tab 1,500 XP
\par Read magic \tab \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par See invisibility \tab 10th \tab \tab 1,000 XP
\par Tongues \tab \tab 11th \tab \tab 1,500 XP
\par The character casts the desired spell and then follows it with the permanency spell. The character cannot cast these spells on other creatures. This application of permanency can be dispelled
 only by a caster of greater level than the character was when the character cast the spell.
\par In addition to personal use, permanency can be used to make the following spells permanent on him or herself, another creature, or an object (as appropriate):
\par Minimum 
\par Spell \tab \tab Level \tab \tab XP Cost
\par ----- \tab \tab ------- \tab -------
\par Enlarge \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Magic Fang \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Resistance \tab 9th \tab \tab 250 XP
\par Additionally, the following spells can be cast upon objects or areas only and rendered permanent:
\par Minimum 
\par Spell \tab \tab \tab Level \tab \tab XP Cost
\par ----- \tab \tab \tab ------- \tab -------
\par Alarm \tab \tab \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Dancing lights \tab \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Ghost sound \tab \tab 9th \tab \tab 500 XP
\par Gust of wind \tab \tab 11th \tab \tab 1,500 XP
\par Invisibility \tab \tab 10th \tab \tab 1,000 XP
\par Magic mouth \tab \tab 10th \tab \tab 1,000 XP
\par Phase door \tab \tab 15th \tab \tab 3,500 XP
\par Prismatic sphere \tab 17th \tab \tab 4,500 XP
\par Shrink item \tab \tab 11th \tab \tab 1,500 XP
\par Solid fog \tab \tab 12th \tab \tab 2,000 XP
\par Stinking cloud \tab \tab 11th \tab \tab 1,500 XP
\par Symbol \tab \tab \tab 16th \tab \tab 4,000 XP
\par Teleportation circle \tab 17th \tab \tab 4,500 XP
\par Wall of fire \tab \tab 12th \tab \tab 2,000 XP
\par Wall of force \tab \tab 13th \tab \tab 2,500 XP
\par Web \tab \tab \tab 10th \tab \tab 1,000 XP
\par Spells cast on other creatures, objects, or locations (not on the character) are vulnerable to dispel magic as normal.
\par The DM may allow other selected spells to be made permanent. Researching this possible application of a spell costs as much time and money a
s independently researching the selected spell. If the DM has already determined that the application is not possible, the research automatically fails. Note that the character never learns what is possible except by the success or failure of the characte
r's research.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Permanent Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, F\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Effect: Figment that cannot extend beyond a 20-ft. cube + one 10-ft. cube/level (S)
\par Duration: Permanent (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{This spell creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by the character. The figment includes visual, auditory, olfactory, and th
ermal elements, and the spell is permanent. By concentrating, the character can move the image within the limits of the range, but it is static while the character is not concentrating.
\par Material Component: Worth 100 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Persistent Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, F\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)\line Effect: Visual figment that cannot extend beyond four 10-ft. cubes + one 10-ft. cube/level (S)\line Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{This spell creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by the character. The figment includes visual, auditory, olfactory, and thermal components, and the figment follows a script 
determined by the character. The figment follows that script without the character's having to concentrate on it. The illusion can include intelligible speech if the character wishes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Phantasmal Killer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Phantasm) 
\par [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with), then Fortitude partial
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Only the spell\rquote s subj
ect can see the phantasmal killer. The character sees only a shadowy shape. The subject first gets a Will save to recognize the image as unreal. If the subject fails, the phantasm touches the subject, and the subject must succeed at a Fortitude save or di
e from fear. Even if the Fortitude save is successful, the subject takes 3d6 points of damage.
\par If the subject of a phantasmal killer attack succeeds in disbelieving and is wearing a helm of telepathy, the beast can be turned upon the character. The character must then disbelieve it or suffer its deadly fear attack.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Phantom Steed
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: 0 ft.
\par Effect: One quasi-real, horselike creature
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character conjures a quasi-real, horselike creature. The steed can be ridden only by the character or by the one person for whom the character specifically created the mount. A phantom steed has a black head and 
body, gray mane and tail, and smoke-colored, insubstantial hooves that make no sound. It has what seems to be a saddle, bit, and bridle. It does not fight, but all normal animals shun it and refuse to attack it. (Dire animals and nonintelligent creatures 
can attack it.)
\par The mount has an Armor Class of 18 (\endash 1 size, +4 natural armor, +5 Dex) and 7 hit points +1 hit point per caster level. If it loses all its hit points, the phantom steed disappears. A phantom steed has a speed of 20 feet per caster level, to 
a maximum of 240 feet. It can bear its rider\rquote s weight plus up to 10 pounds per caster level.
\par These mounts gain certain powers according to caster level. A mount\rquote s abilities include those of mounts of lower caster levels.
\par 8th Level: The mount can ride over sandy, muddy, or even swampy ground without difficulty or decrease in speed.
\par 10th Level: The mount can ride over water as if it were firm, dry ground.
\par 12th Level: The mount can ride in the air as if it were firm land, so chasms and the like can be crossed 
without benefit of a bridge. The mount cannot simply take off and fly. It can only ride horizontally across the air. After 1 round in the air, the mount falls.
\par 14th Level: The mount can fly at its speed. It has a maneuverability rating of average.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Phase Door
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 8
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Effect: Ethereal 5 ft. x 8 ft. opening, 1 ft./level deep
\par Duration: One usage/two levels
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par This spell creates an et
hereal passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, but not other materials. The phase door is invisible and inaccessible to all creatures except the character, and only the character can use the passage. The character disappears when the character en
t
ers the phase door and appears when the character exits. If the character desires, the character can take one other creature (Medium-size or smaller) through the door. This counts as two uses of the door. The door does not allow light, sound, or spell eff
ects through it, nor can the character see through it without using it. Gems of true seeing and similar magic reveal the presence of a phase door but do not allow its use.
\par A phase door is subject to dispel magic. If anyone is within the passage when it is dispelled, he is harmlessly ejected.
\par A phase door can be made permanent with a permanency spell. 
\par The character can allow other creatures to use the phase door by setting some triggering condition for the door. Such conditions can be as simple or elaborate as the character desires. They can be based on a creature\rquote 
s name, identity, or alignment, but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, HD, and hit points don\rquote t qualify.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Planar Ally
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Clr 6
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)
\par Effect: Up to 16 HD worth of summoned elementals and outsiders, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart when they appear
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par By casting this spell, the character requests the character's deity to send the character an elemental or outsider (of up to 16 HD), or a number of creatures of the same type whose HD total no more than 16 HD, of the deity\rquote 
s choice. If the character serves no particular deity, the spell is a general plea answered by a creature sharing the character's philosophical alignment. If the character knows an individual creature\rquote s name, the
 character may request that individual by speaking the name during the spell (though the character might get a different creature anyway).
\par The character may ask the creature to perform one task for the character, and the creature may request some service i
n return. The more demanding the character's request, the greater return favor the creature asks for. This bargaining takes at least 1 round, so any actions by the creature begin in the round after it arrives. If the character agrees to the service, the c
r
eature performs the task the character requested, reports back to the character afterward (if possible), and returns to its home plane. The character is honor bound to perform the return favor. If the character calls multiple creatures with this spell the
 creatures, as a group, agree to perform one task for the character and request one favor in return.
\par A creature may accept some form of payment, such as a magic item, in return for its service. The creature may keep it or may deliver the item to another member of the character's religion somewhere else, where it can help the religion\rquote s cause.

\par Note: When the character uses a calling spell that calls an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Planar Binding
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Calling) [see text]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) (see text)
\par Targets: Up to 16 HD worth of elementals and outsiders, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart when they appear
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Casting this spell attempts a dangerous act: to lure a creature or creatures from another plane to a specifically prepared trap, which must lie within the spell\rquote s range. Th
e character may call a single creature of up to 16 HD or a number of creatures of the same type whose HD total no more than 16. The called creature is held in the trap until it agrees to perform one service in return for its freedom.
\par To create the trap, the character must use a magic circle spell, focused inward. The type of creature to be bound must be known and stated. If it has a specific, proper, or given name, this must be used in casting the spell.
\par The target creature must attempt a Will saving throw.
 If the saving throw succeeds, the creature resists the spell. If the saving throw fails, the creature is immediately drawn to the trap (spell resistance does not keep the creature from being called). The creature can escape from the trap with a successfu
l SR roll, dimensional travel, or a successful Charisma check (DC 16 + 1/2 the caster\rquote s level + the caster\rquote 
s Charisma modifier). It can try each method once per day. If it breaks loose, it can flee or attack the character. A dimensional anchor cast on the c
reature prevents its escape via dimensional travel. The character can also employ a calling diagram to make the trap more secure.
\par If the creature does not break free of the trap, the character can keep it bound for as long as the character dares
. The character can attempt to compel the creature to perform a service by describing the service and perhaps offering some sort of reward. The character makes a Charisma check opposed by the creature\rquote 
s Charisma check. The DM then assigns a bonus based on the service and reward, from 0 to +6. This bonus applies to the character's Charisma check. If the creature wins the opposed check, it refuses service. 
\par If multiple creatures are called each creature gets a save, makes an independent attempt to escape, and must be individually persuaded to aid the character.
\par New offers, bribes, and the like can be made or the old ones reoffered every 24 hours. This can be repeated until the creature promises to serve, until it breaks free, or until the character decides to 
get rid of it by means of some other spell. Impossible demands or unreasonable commands are never agreed to. If the character rolls a 1 on the Charisma check, the creature breaks free of the binding and can escape or attack the character.
\par Once the requeste
d service is completed, the creature need only so inform the character to be instantly sent back whence it came. The creature might later seek revenge. If the character assigns some open-ended task that the creature cannot complete though its own actions 
(such as "Wait here" or "Defend this area against attack"), the spell remains in effect for a maximum of 1 day per caster level, and the creature gains an immediate chance to break free. Note that a clever recipient can subvert some instructions.
\par When the character uses a calling spell to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of that type.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Plane Shift
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 6, Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched, or up to eight willing creatures joining hands
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character moves him or herself or some other creature to another plane of existence or alternate dimension. If se
veral willing persons link hands in a circle, up to eight can be affected by the plane shift at the same time. Pinpoint accuracy as to a particular arrival location on the intended plane is nigh impossible. From the Material Plane, the character can reach
 any other plane, though the character appears 5 to 500 miles (5d%) from the character's intended destination.
\par Note: Plane shift transports the creatures instantaneously and then ends. The creatures need to find other means if they are to travel back. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Plant Growth
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Drd 3, Plant 3, Rgr 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text
\par Target or Area: See text
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Plant growth has different effects depending on the version chosen.
\par Overgrowth: The first effect causes normal vegetation within long range (400 feet + 40 feet per level) to become thick and overgrown. The plants entwine to form a thicket or jungle that cr
eatures must hack or force a way through. Speed drops to 5 feet, or 10 feet for Large or larger creatures. (The DM may allow faster movement for very small or very large creatures.) The area must have brush and trees in it for this spell to take effect.

\par At the character's option, the area can be a circle with a radius of 100 feet, a semicircle with a radius of 150 feet, or a quarter circle with a radius of 200 feet. The character may also designate areas within the area that are not affected.
\par Enrichment: The second effect targets plants within a range of one-half mile, raising their potential productivity over the course of the next year to one-third above normal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Poison
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par Level: Clr 4, Drd 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Living creature touched
\par Duration: Instantaneous (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character inflicts the subject with a poison by making a successful melee touch attack. The poison deals 1d10 points of
 temporary Constitution damage immediately and another 1d10 points of temporary Constitution damage 1 minute later. Each instance of damage can be negated by a Fortitude save (DC 10 + one-half caster level + caster\rquote s Wisdom modifier).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Polymorph Any Object
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Trickery 8
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature or object
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object) (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell changes one object or creature into another. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the subject\rquote 
s normal form. Upon changing, the subject regains lost hit points as if having rested for a day (though this healing
 does not restore temporary ability damage and provide other benefits of resting for a day; and changing back does not heal the creature further). If slain, the polymorphed creature or object reverts to its original form, though it remains dead.
\par The target
 acquires the physical and natural abilities of the creature or object it has been polymorphed into while retaining its own mind. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. The subject also takes the Intellig
e
nce score of the creature or object it has been polymorphed into.  Natural abilities include armor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical qualities.  A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-w
e
apon attacks) than normal.  Natural abilities also include mundane movement capabilities, but not magical flight and other magical forms of travel. Extremely high speeds for certain creatures are the result of magical ability, so they are not granted by t
his spell. Other nonmagical abilities (such as low-light vision) are considered natural abilities and are retained.
\par Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par The creature\rquote s new scores and faculties are average ones for the race or species into which it has been transformed.
\par The subject retains its Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in its Constitution score), alignment, base attack 
bonus, and base saves. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) If the original form didn\rquote t have a Wisdom or Charisma score, it gains those scores of the new form.
\par The subject retains its own type, extrao
rdinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities. The subject can cast spells for which it has components. It needs a humanlike voice for verbal components and humanlike hands for somatic components. The subject does
 not gain the spell-like abilities of its new form. The subject does not gain the supernatural abilities or the extraordinary abilities of the new creature.
\par The new form can be disorienting. Any time the polymorphed creature is in a stressful or demanding situation (such as combat), the creature must succeed at a Will save (DC 19) or suffer a \endash 
2 penalty on all attack rolls, saves, skill checks, and ability checks until the situation passes. Creatures who are polymorphed for a long time (years and years) grow accustomed to their new form and can overcome some of these drawbacks (DM\rquote 
s discretion).
\par When the polymorph occurs, the creature\rquote s equipment, if any, transforms to match the new form. If the new form is a creature that does not use equipment, the equipmen
t melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. Material components and focuses melded in this way cannot be used to cast spells. If the new form uses equipment, the subject\rquote s equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.

\par The character can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote 
s significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under the character's control, but must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote 
s species. The subject can be changed into a member of its own species or even into itself. (If changed into itself, it does not suffer the abovementioned penalties from the disorientation of a new form.)
\par The subject is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote s race. If the character uses this spell to create a disguise, the character get a +10 bonus on the character's Disguise check.
\par Incorporeal or gaseous forms cannot be assumed, and incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed. A natural shapeshifter can take its natural form as a standard action.
\par The duration of the spell depends on how radical a change is made from the original state to its enchanted state. The DM determines the duration by using the following guidelines:
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Increase to
\par Changed Subject Is: \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Duration Factor*
\par ------------------- \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------------
\par Same kingdom (animal, vegetable, mineral) \tab \tab +5
\par Same class (mammals, fungi, metals, etc.) \tab \tab +2
\par Same size \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +2
\par Related (twig is to tree, wolf fur is to wolf, etc.) \tab +2
\par Same or lower Intelligence \tab \tab \tab \tab +2
\par *Add all that apply. Look up the total on the next table.
\par Duration
\par Factor \tab \tab Example\tab \tab \tab Duration
\par --------\tab -------\tab \tab \tab --------
\par 0 \tab \tab Pebble to human \tab 20 minutes
\par 2 \tab \tab Marionette to human \tab 1 hour
\par 4 \tab \tab Human to marionette \tab 3 hours
\par 5 \tab \tab Lizard to manticore \tab 12 hours
\par 6 \tab \tab Sheep to wool coat \tab 2 days
\par 7 \tab \tab Shrew to manticore \tab 1 week
\par 9+ \tab \tab Manticore to shrew \tab Permanent
\par This spell cannot create material of great intrinsic value.
\par This spell can also be used to duplicate the effects of polymorph other, flesh to stone, stone to flesh, transmute mud to rock, transmute water to dust, or transmute rock to mud.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Polymorph Other
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Polymorph other changes the subject into another form of creature. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the subject\rquote 
s normal form. Upon changing, the subject regains lost hit points as if having rested for a day (though this healing does not restore temporary ability da
mage and provide other benefits of resting for a day; and changing back does not heal the creature further). If slain, the polymorphed creature reverts to its original form, though it remains dead.
\par The polymorphed creature acquires the physical and natural
 abilities of the creature it has been polymorphed into while retaining its own mind. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities include armor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical qu
a
lities.  A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.  Natural abilities also include mundane movement capabilities, but not magical flight and other magical forms of travel
. Extremely high speeds for certain creatures are the result of magical ability, so they are not granted by this spell. Other nonmagical abilities (such as low-light vision) are considered natural abilities and are retained.
\par Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par The creature\rquote s new scores and faculties are average ones for the race or species into which it has been transformed. 
\par The subject retains its Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma score
s, level and class, hit points (despite any change in its Constitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, and base saves. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) The subject retains its own type, ext
r
aordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities. The subject can cast spells for which it has components. It needs a humanlike voice for verbal components and humanlike hands for somatic components. The subject do
es not gain the spell-like abilities of its new form. The subject does not gain the supernatural abilities or the extraordinary abilities of the new creature.
\par The new form can be disorienting. Any time the polymorphed creature is in a stressful or demanding situation (such as combat), the creature must succeed at a Will save (DC 19) or suffer a \endash 
2 penalty on all attack rolls, saves, skill checks, and ability checks until the situation passes. Creatures who are polymorphed for a long time (years and years) grow accustomed to their new form and can overcome some of these drawbacks (DM\rquote 
s discretion).
\par When the polymorph occurs, the creature\rquote s equipment, if any, transforms to match the new form. If the new form is a creature who does not use equipment, the equipme
nt melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. Material components and focuses melded in this way cannot be used to cast spells. If the new form uses equipment, the subject\rquote 
s equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.
\par The character can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote 
s significant physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under the character's control, but must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote 
s species. The subject can be changed into a member of its own species or even into itself. (If changed into itself, it does not suffer the abovementioned penalties from the disorientation of a new form.)
\par The subject is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote s race. If the character uses this spell to create a disguise, the character get a +10 bonus on the character's Disguise check.
\par Incorporeal or gaseous forms cannot be assumed, and incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed. A natural shapeshifter  can take its natural form as a standard action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Polymorph Self
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par Level: Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 4
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: The character
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The caster is changed into another form of creature. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the caster\rquote 
s normal form. Upon changing, the character regains lost hit points as if having rested for a day (though this healing does not restore temporary ability damage and provide other 
benefits of resting for a day; and changing back does not heal the caster further). If slain, the character reverts to his or her original form, though the creature remains dead.
\par The polymorphed character acquires the physical and natural abilities of the 
creature he or she has been polymorphed into while retaining his or her own mind. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores. Natural abilities include armor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical qualit
i
es.  A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal.  Natural abilities also include mundane movement capabilities, but not magical flight and other magical forms of travel. Ex
tremely high speeds for certain creatures are the result of magical ability, so they are not granted by this spell. Other nonmagical abilities (such as low-light vision) are considered natural abilities and are retained.
\par Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par The character\rquote s new scores and faculties are average ones for the race or species into which he or she has been transformed. 
\par The character retains his or her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change in the character\rquote 
s Constitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, and base saves. (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.) The character
 retains his or her own type, extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not its supernatural abilities. The character can cast spells for which he or she has components. The character needs a humanlike voice for verbal components and 
humanlike hands for somatic components. The caster does not gain the spell-like abilities of the new form. The character does not gain the supernatural abilities or the extraordinary abilities of the new creature.
\par The new form can be disorienting. Any time the polymorphed character is in a stressful or demanding situation (such as combat), the caster must succeed at a Will save (DC 19) or suffer a \endash 
2 penalty on all attack rolls, saves, skill checks, and ability checks until the situation passes. Characters who are polymorphed for a long time (years and years) grow accustomed to their new form and can overcome some of these drawbacks (DM\rquote 
s discretion).
\par When the polymorph occurs, the character\rquote s equipment, if any, transforms to match the new form. If the new fo
rm is a creature that does not use equipment, the equipment melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. Material components and focuses melded in this way cannot be used to cast spells. If the new form uses equipment, the caster\rquote 
s equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.
\par The character can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities (such as hair color, hair texture, and skin color) within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote s significant
 physical qualities (such as height, weight, and gender) are also under the character's control, but must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote 
s species. The character can be changed into a member of his or her own species or even into itself. (If changed into itself, it does not suffer the abovementioned penalties from the disorientation of a new form.)
\par The character is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote s race. If the character uses this spell to create a disguise, the character gets a +10 bonus on the character's Disguise check.
\par Incorporeal or gaseous forms cannot be assumed, and incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed. A natural shapeshifter can take its natural form as a standard action.
\par The character can change form as often as desired for the duration of the spell simply by willing it so. Each change is a full-round action. The character regains hit points as if having rested for a day only from the initial transformation, however.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Word, Blind
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8, War 8
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: Creatures with up to 200 total hit points within a 15-ft.-radius sphere
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell blinds one or more creatures. It affects the creatures with the lowest hit point totals first, selecting subjects one at a time until the next target would put it over the limit of 200. (Creatures with negative hit points count as having 0 h
it points.)
\par The duration of the spell depends on the total hit points of the affected creatures:
\par Hit Points\tab Duration
\par ----------\tab --------
\par Up to 50 \tab Permanent
\par 51 to 100 \tab 1d4+1 minutes
\par 101 to 200 \tab 1d4+1 rounds
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Word, Kill
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation) [Death]
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 9, War 9
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target or Area: One living creature or one or more creatures within a 15-ft.-radius sphere
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character can either target a single creature or let the spell affect a group.
\par If power word, kill is targeted at a single creature, that creature dies if it has 100 or fewer hit points.
\par If power word, kill is cast as an area spell, it kills creatures 
in a 15-foot-radius sphere. It kills only creatures that have 20 or fewer hit points, and only up to a total of 200 hit points of such creatures. The spell affects creatures with the lowest hit point totals first until the next creature would put the tota
l over the limit of 200. (Creatures with negative hit points count as having 0 hit points.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Word, Stun
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7, War 7
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature with up to 150 hit points
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par One creature of the character's choice is stunned, whether the creature can hear the word or not. A creature with 50 or fewer hit points remains stun
ned for 4d4 rounds, one with 51 to 100 hit points is stunned for 2d4 rounds, one with 101 to 150 hit points is stunned for 1d4 rounds, and a creature with 151 hit points or more is not affected.
\par A stunned creature can\rquote t act and loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. Attackers gain +2 bonuses to attack it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prayer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation)
\par Level: Clr 3, Pal 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Area: All allies and foes within a 30-ft.-radius burst centered on the character
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par The character and the character's allies gain a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saves, and skill checks, while foes suffer a \endash 1 penalty on such rolls.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prestidigitation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: 1 hour
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par Once cast, the prestidigitation spell enables the character to perform simple magical effects fo
r 1 hour. The effects are minor and have severe limitations. Prestidigitations can slowly lift 1 pound of material. They can color, clean, or soil items in a 1-foot cube each round. They can chill, warm, or flavor 1 pound of nonliving material. They canno
t
 inflict damage or affect the concentration of spellcasters. Prestidigitation can create small objects, but they look crude and artificial. The materials created by a prestidigitation spell are extremely fragile, and they cannot be used as tools, weapons,
 or spell components. Finally, prestidigitation lacks the power to duplicate any other spell effects. Any actual change to an object (beyond just moving, cleaning, or soiling it) persists only 1 hour.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prismatic Sphere
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Protection 9, Sor/Wiz 9, Sun 9
\par Components: V
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Effect: 10-ft.-radius sphere centered on the character
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: See text
\par The character conjures up an immobi
le, opaque globe of shimmering, multicolored light that surrounds the character and protects the character from all forms of attack. The sphere flashes in all colors of the visible spectrum.  The sphere flashes with seven colors, each of which has a disti
nct power and purpose. The sphere is immobile, and the character can pass through and remain near the sphere without harm. 
\par When the character is inside the sphere, the sphere blocks any attempt to project something through the sphere (including spells). Other creatures who attempt to attack the character or pass through suffer the effects of each color, one at a time.
\par Typically, only the upper hemisphere of the globe will exist, since the character is at the center of the sphere, so the lower half is usually excluded by the floor surface the character is standing on.
\par Any creature with fewer than 8 HD that is within 20 feet of the sphere is blinded for 2d4 x 10 minutes by the colors if it looks at the wall.
\par Each color in the sphere has a special effect. The a
ccompanying table shows the seven colors of the sphere, the order in which they appear, their effects on creatures trying to attack the character or pass through the sphere, and the magic needed to negate each color. 
\par The sphere can be destroyed, color by 
color, in consecutive order, by various magical effects; however, the first must be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. A rod of cancellation or a disjunction spell destroys a prismatic sphere, but an antimagic field fails to penetr
ate it. Dispel magic and greater dispelling cannot dispel the sphere or anything within it. Spell resistance is effective against a prismatic sphere, but the caster level check must be repeated for each color present.
\par Color \tab Order \tab Effect of Color \tab \tab \tab \tab Negated By
\par ----- \tab ----- \tab --------------- \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par Red \tab 1st \tab Stops nonmagical ranged weapons \tab \tab Cone of Cold
\par \tab \tab Deals 20 ponts of fire damage (Reflex half)
\par Orange \tab 2nd \tab Stops magical ranged weapoins \tab \tab \tab Gust of Wind
\par \tab \tab Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half)
\par Yellow \tab 3rd \tab Stops poisons, gasses, and petrification \tab \tab Disintegrate
\par \tab \tab Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half)
\par Green \tab 4th \tab Stops breath weapons \tab \tab \tab \tab Passwall
\par \tab \tab Poison (Kills; Fortitute partial to take 20 points of damage instead)
\par Blue \tab 5th \tab Stops divination and mental attacks \tab \tab Magic Missile
\par \tab \tab Turned to stone (Fortitude negates)
\par Indigo \tab 6th \tab Stops all spells \tab \tab \tab \tab Daylight
\par \tab \tab Will save or become insane (as insanity spell)
\par Violet \tab 7th \tab Energy field destroys all objects and \tab \tab Dispel Magic effects
\par \tab \tab Creatures are sent to another plane (Will negates)
\par The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but they are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and SR might render some colors ineffective (see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prismatic Spray
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 7
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: Cone
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This spell caus
es seven shimmering, intertwined, multicolored beams of light to spray from the character's hand. Each beam has a different power. Creatures in the area of the spell with 8 HD or less are automatically blinded (see blindness/deafness) for 2d4 rounds. All 
creatures in the area are randomly struck by one or more beams, which have additional effects.
\par Color
\par 1d8 \tab of Beam \tab Effect
\par --- \tab ------- \tab ------
\par 1 \tab Red \tab \tab 20 points fire damage (Reflex half)
\par 2 \tab Orange \tab \tab 40 points acid damage (Reflex half)
\par 3 \tab Yellow \tab \tab 80 points electricity damage (Reflex half)
\par 4 \tab Green Poison \tab (Kills; Fortitude partial, take 20 points of damage instead)
\par 5 \tab Blue \tab \tab Turned to stone (Fortitude negates)
\par 6 \tab Indigo \tab \tab Insane, as insanity spell (Will negates)
\par 7 \tab Violet \tab \tab Sent to another plane (Will negates)
\par 8 \tab Struck by two rays; roll again twice, ignoring any "8" results.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prismatic Wall
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: Wall 4 ft./level wide x 2 ft./
\par level high
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: See text
\par Spell Resistance: See text
\par Prismatic wall creates a vertical, opaque wall\emdash a shimmering, multicolored plane of light that protects the character from all forms of attack. The wall flashes with seven colors, 
each of which has a distinct power and purpose. The wall is immobile, and the character can pass through and remain near the wall without harm. However, any other creature with fewer than 8 HD that is within 20 feet of the wall is blinded (see blindness/d
eafness) for 2d4 rounds by the colors if it looks at the wall.
\par The wall\rquote s maximum proportions are 4 feet wide per caster level and 2 feet high per caster level. A prismatic wall spell cast to materialize in a space occupied by a creature is disrupted, and the spell is wasted.
\par Each color in the wall has a special effect. The accompanying table shows the seven colors of the wall, the order in which they appear, their effects on creatures trying to attack the character or pass through the wall, and the magic ne
eded to negate each color. 
\par The wall can be destroyed, color by color, in consecutive order, by various magical effects; however, the first must be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. A rod of cancellation or a disjunction spell dest
roys a prismatic wall, but an antimagic field fails to penetrate it. Dispel magic and greater dispelling cannot dispel the wall or anything beyond it. Spell resistance is effective against a prismatic wall, but the caster level check must be repeated for 
each color present.
\par Color \tab Order \tab Effect of Color \tab \tab \tab \tab Negated By
\par ----- \tab ----- \tab --------------- \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par Red \tab 1st \tab Stops nonmagical ranged weapons \tab \tab Cone of Cold
\par \tab \tab Deals 20 ponts of fire damage (Reflex half)
\par Orange \tab 2nd \tab Stops magical ranged weapoins \tab \tab \tab Gust of Wind
\par \tab \tab Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half)
\par Yellow \tab 3rd \tab Stops poisons, gasses, and petrification \tab \tab Disintegrate
\par \tab \tab Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half)
\par Green \tab 4th \tab Stops breath weapons \tab \tab \tab \tab Passwall
\par \tab \tab Poison (Kills; Fortitute partial to take 20 points of damage instead)
\par Blue \tab 5th \tab Stops divination and mental attacks \tab \tab Magic Missile
\par \tab \tab Turned to stone (Fortitude negates)
\par Indigo \tab 6th \tab Stops all spells \tab \tab \tab \tab Daylight
\par \tab \tab Will save or become insane (as insanity spell)
\par Violet \tab 7th \tab Energy field destroys all objects and \tab \tab Dispel Magic effects
\par \tab \tab Creatures are sent to another plane (Will negates)
\par The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but they are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at a time, and SR might render some colors ineffective (see above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Produce Flame
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par Level: Drd 2, Fire 2
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 0 ft.
\par Effect: Flame in the character's palm
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par Flames appear in the character's hand. The character can h
url them or use them to touch enemies. The bright flames, which illuminate out to 20 feet as torches do, appear in the character's open hand and harm neither the character nor the character's equipment.
\par The character can strike opponents with a melee touch
 attack, dealing fire damage equal to 1d4 +1 point per two caster levels (maximum +10). Alternatively, the character can hurl the flames up to 120 feet as a thrown weapon. When doing so, the character attacks with a ranged touch attack (with no range pena
lty) and deal the same damage as with the melee attack. No sooner does the character hurl the flames than a new set appears in the character's hand.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Programmed Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Figment)
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, F\line Casting Time: 1 action\line Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Effect: Visual figment that cannot extend beyond a 20-ft. cube + one 10-ft. cube/level (S)
\par Duration: Permanent until triggered, then 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)\line Spell Resistance: No}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{This 
spell creates the visual illusion of an object, creature, or force, as visualized by the character. The illusion includes visual, auditory, olfactory, and thermal elements, including intelligible speech.  The figment activates when a specific condition oc
curs.
\par The character sets the triggering condition (which may be a special word) when casting the spell. The event that triggers the illusion can be as general or as specific and detailed as desired but must be based on an audible, tactile, olfactory, or vis
ual trigger. The trigger cannot be based on some quality not normally obvious to the senses. 
\par Material Component: Worth 25 gp.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Project Image
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion (Shadow)
\par Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Effect: One shadow duplicate
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if interacted with)
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates a shadow duplicate of him or herself; it looks, sounds, and smells 
like the character but is intangible. The shadow mimics the character's actions (including speech) unless the character concentrate on making it act differently. The character can see through its eyes and hear through its ears as if the character were sta
n
ding where it is, and during the character's turn in a round the character can switch from seeing through its eyes to seeing normally, or back again. If the character desires, any spell the character casts whose range is touch or greater can originate fro
m the shadow instead of from the character. (The shadow is quasi-real, just real enough to cast spells that the character originates.) The shadow can cast spells on itself only if those spells affect shadows.
\par The character must maintain line of effect to the shadow at all times. If the character's line of effect is obstructed, the spell ends. If the character uses a spell that breaks the character's line of effect, even momentarily, the spell ends.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Arrows
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par The warded creature gains resistance to ranged weapons. The subje
ct gains damage reduction 10/+1 against ranged weapons. It ignores the first 10 points of damage each time it takes damage from a ranged weapon, though a weapon with a +1 enhancement bonus or any magical attack bypasses the reduction. The damage reduction
 increases with the caster level to 10/+2 at 5th, 10/+3 at 10th, 10/+4 at 15th, and 10/+5 at 20th. Once the spell has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per caster level (maximum 100 points), it is discharged.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Chaos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Lawful]
\par Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Law 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards a creature from attacks by chaotic creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around the subject at a distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with the subject and has three major ef
fects:
\par First, the subject gets a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by chaotic creatures.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental co
ntrol over the creature. The protection does not prevent a spell that gains mental control, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If the protection from chaos effect ends before the mental control effe
c
t does, the caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.

\par Third, the spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Lawful elementals and outsiders 
a
re immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome th
is protection and touch the warded creature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Elements
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Luck 3, Protection 3, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 3
\par Components: V, S, DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: Yes
\par This abjuration grants a creature temporary invulnerability to the selected energy type (acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic). When the spell absorbs 12 points per caster level of elemental damage, it is discharged.  The spell protects the recipient
\rquote s equipment as well.
\par Protection from elements absorbs only damage. The character could still suffer unfortunate side effects.
\par Note: Protection from elements overlaps (and does not stack with) resist elem
ents and endure elements. If a character is warded by protection from elements and one or both of the other spells, the protection spell absorbs damage until it is exhausted. If a character is warded by resist elements and endure elements at the same time
, the resist spell absorbs damage but the endure spell does not.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Evil
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Good]
\par Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Good 1, Pal 1,
\par Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards a creature from attacks by evil creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around
 the subject at a distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with the subject and has three major effects:
\par First, the subject gets a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by evil creatures.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature (as by a magic jar attack) or to exercise mental control over the creature (as by a vampire\rquote 
s supernatural domination ability, which works similar to dominate person). The protection does not prevent a vampire\rquote 
s domination itself, but it prevents the vampire from mentally commanding the protected creature. If the protection from evil effect ends before the domination effect does, the vampire would then be able to mentally command the contr
olled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.
\par Third, the spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured cr
eatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Good elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned
 or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Good
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Evil]
\par Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Evil 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards a 
creature from attacks by good creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around the subject at a distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with the subject and has three major effects:
\par First, the subject gets a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by good creatures.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded creature or to exercise mental control over the creature. 
The protection does not prevent a spell that gains mental control, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If the protection from chaos effect ends before the mental control effect does, the caster would
 then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect works regardless of alignment.
\par Third, the spell prevents
 bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Evil elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. 
T
he protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the
 warded creature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Law
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Chaotic]
\par Level: Brd 1, Chaos 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1
\par Components: V, S, M/DF
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: No (see text)
\par This spell wards a creature from attacks by lawful creatures, from mental control, and from summoned or conjured creatures. It creates a magical barrier around the subject at a distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with the 
subject and has three major effects:
\par First, the subject gets a +2 deflection bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on saves. Both these bonuses apply against attacks made by lawful creatures.
\par Second, the barrier blocks any attempt to possess the warded cre
ature or to exercise mental control over the creature. The protection does not prevent a spell that gains mental control, but it prevents the caster of such a spell from mentally commanding the protected creature. If the protection from chaos effect ends 
b
efore the mental control effect does, the caster would then be able to mentally command the controlled creature. Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possessing life force but does not expel one if it is in place before the spell is cast. This second effect 
works regardless of alignment.
\par Third, the spell prevents bodily contact by summoned or conjured creatures. This causes the natural weapon attacks of such creatures to fail and the creatures to recoil if such attacks require touching the warded creature. Cha
otic elementals and outsiders are immune to this effect. The protection against contact by summoned or conjured creatures ends if the warded creature makes an attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature. Spell resistance can 
allow a creature to overcome this protection and touch the warded creature.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Protection from Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par Level: Magic 8, Sor/Wiz 8
\par Components: V, S, M, F
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: Up to one creature/four levels touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Subjects gain a +8 resistance bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities (but not against supernatural and extraordinary abilities). 
\par Material Component: Worth at least 500 gp value.
\par Focus: One 1,000 gp gem per creature granted the protection. Each recipient must carry one such gem for the duration of the spell. If a recipient loses the gem, the spell ceases to affect him or her.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prying Eyes
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par Level: Sor/Wiz 5
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 minute
\par Range: One mile
\par Effect: Creates 1d4 levitating eyes +1 eye/level
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Spell Resistance: No
\par The character creates ten or more semitangible
, visible magical orbs (called "eyes") that move out, scout around, and return as the character directs them when casting the spell. When an eye returns, it relays what it has seen to the character and then disappears. Each eye is about the size of a smal
l apple and can see 120 feet (normal vision only) in all directions.
\par The spell conjures 1d4 eyes plus one eye per caster level. While the individual eyes are quite fragile, they\rquote re small and difficult to spot. Each eye is a Fine construct that has 1 hit poi
nt, has AC 18 (+8 bonus for its size), flies at a speed of 30 feet with perfect maneuverability, and a +16 skill modifier on Hide checks. The eyes are subject to illusions, darkness, fog, and any other factors that would affect the character's ability to 
receive visual information about the character's surroundings. An eye traveling through darkness must find its way by touch.
\par When the character creates the eyes, the character specifies instructions the character wants the eyes to follow in a command of up to twenty-five words. Any knowledge the character possesses is known by the eyes as well.
\par In order to report their findings, the eyes must return to the character's hand. Each replays in the character's mind everything it has seen during its existence. It takes an eye only 1 round to replay 1 hour of recorded images.
\par If an eye ever gets more than one mile distant from the character, it instantly ceases to exist. However, the character's link with the eye is such that the character won\rquote t know if the eye was 
destroyed because it wandered out of range or because of some other event.
\par The eyes exist for up to 1 hour per caster level or until they return to the character. After relaying its findings, an eye disappears. Dispel magic can destroy eyes. Roll separatel
y for each eye caught in an area dispel. Of course, if the eye is sent into darkness, then it\rquote s very possible that it could hit a wall or similar obstacle and destroy itself.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Purify Food and Drink
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par Level: Clr 0, Drd 0
\par Components: V, S
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Target: 1 cu. ft./level of contaminated food and water
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
\par This spell makes spoiled, rotten, poisonous, or otherwise contaminated food and wate
r pure and suitable for eating and drinking. This spell does not prevent subsequent natural decay or spoilage. Unholy water and similar food and drink of significance is spoiled by purify food and drink, but the spell has no effect on creatures of any typ
e, nor upon magic potions.
\par Note: Water weighs about 8 pounds per gallon. One cubic foot of water contains roughly 8 gallons and weighs about 60 pounds.
\par 
\par }{\i Pyrotechnics
\par }{Transmutation
\par Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2
\par Components: V, S, M
\par Casting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Target: One fire source, up to a 20-ft. cube
\par Duration: 1d4+1 rounds or 1d4+1 rounds after creatures leave the smoke cloud (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates or Fortitude negates (see text)
\par Spell Resistance: Yes or No (see text)
\par Pyrotechnics turns a fire into either a burst of blinding fireworks or a thick cloud of choking smoke, depending on the version the character chooses.
\par Fireworks: The fireworks are a flashing, fiery, momentary burst of glowing, colored aerial li
ghts. This effect blinds creatures within 120 feet of the fire source for 1d4+1 rounds (Will negates). These creatures must have line of sight to the fire to be affected. Spell resistance can prevent blindness. In addition to the obvious effects, a blinde
d creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, grants a +2 bonus to attackers\rquote  attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a \endash 
4 penalty on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.
\par Smoke Cloud: The smoke is a writhing stream of smoke billowing out from the source and forming a choking cloud. The cloud spreads 20 feet in all directions and lasts for 1 round per caster level. All sight, even darkvision,
 is ineffective in or through the cloud. All within the cloud suffer \endash 
4 penalties to Strength and Dexterity scores (Fortitude negates). These effects last for 1d4+1 rounds after the cloud dissipates or after the character leaves the area of the cloud. Spell resistance does not apply.
\par Material Component: The spell uses one fire source, which is immediately extinguished. A fire so large that it exceeds a 20-foot cube is only partly extinguished. Magical fires are not extinguished, although a fire-based creatu
re used as a source takes 1 point of damage per caster level.
\par }}