{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext15 Skil/Rank/Abil/Etc. Tab;}{\s16\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext16 
Skill/Rank/Ability Tabs;}{\s17\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext17 Table Shaded Line;}{\s18\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext18 Table Body;}{\s19\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon18 \snext19 Table Head;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext20 Table Title;}{\s21\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon30 \snext21 Legal Page Text;}{\s22\qj \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext22 Sidebar Body;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext23 Running Head-LEFT;}{
\s24\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon30 \snext24 Hanging bullet;}{\s25\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0
\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon26 \snext25 H4;}{\s26\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon27 \snext26 H3;}{\s27\qr \li0\ri0\sb400\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon30 \snext27 H2;}{\s28\qr \li0\ri0\sl-400\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext28 H1;}{\s29\qc \li0\ri0\sl-480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext29 FOLIO;}{\s30\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext30 Core Body;}{\s31\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext31 CHAPTER NUMBER;}{\s32\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext32 
CHAPTER NAME;}}{\info{\title  T11835_620_PsiHdbkCh7.qxd}{\author Andrew Smith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy22\hr14\min7}{\revtim\yr2003\mo2\dy3\hr10\min36}{\version188}{\edmins112}{\nofpages30}{\nofwords11741}{\nofchars66928}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws82192}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\ulnone 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{
\par PSIONIC ITEMS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Using Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A psionic item 
must be activated for use, although sometimes activation simply means holding the item. Some items, once donned, function constantly. In most cases, though, using an item requires an activate psionic item action that does not provoke attacks of opportunit
y. However, the use of power trigger items (see below) is treated just like manifesting powers in combat.
\par Activating a psionic item is a standard action unless the item description indicates otherwise. The manifestation time of a psionic power is the time r
equired to activate the same power in an item, unless the item description specifically states otherwise.
\par The three ways to activate psionic items are:
\par Power Trigger: This is the activation method for power stones. It requires the special knowledge of psionic power manifestation that an appropriate character would know and forming the appropriate command thought. If a power is on a character\rquote 
s power list (either the psion list or the psychic warrior list), the character knows how to use a power trigger item
 that stores that power. The user must still determine what power is stored in the item before activating it. Activating a power trigger item is a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity exactly as manifesting a power does.
\par Command Thought: If
 no activation method is suggested either in the psionic item description or by the nature of the item, assume that a command thought is needed to activate it. Command thought activation means that a character mentally projects a word and the item activat
es. No other special knowledge is needed. Activating a command thought psionic item is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
\par Sometimes the command thought to activate an item is mentally encoded within it and is whispered into the 
mind of a creature first picking it up. Other items are silent, but Knowledge (psionics) or Knowledge (history) skills might be useful in helping to identify command thoughts. A successful check (DC 30) is needed to come up with the command thought in thi
s case.
\par The power identify reveals command thoughts.
\par Use-Activated: This type of psionic item has to be used to activate. Use activation is generally straightforward and self-explanatory (the character must still know or guess what the item does to activate it).
\par If using the item takes time before a psionic effect occurs, then use activation is a standard action. If the item\rquote 
s activation takes no extra time, use activation is usually not even an action. Neither provokes attacks of opportunity unless the use involves taking an action that in itself provokes them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Saving Throws against Psionic Item Powers
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Psionic items produce psionic powers. The DC of a saving throw against a power from a psionic item is always 10 + the level of the power or effect + the abil
ity bonus of the minimum ability score needed to manifest that level of power. Another way to figure the same number is to multiply the power\rquote s level by 1.5 and add 10 to the result.
\par Some item descriptions give saving throw DCs for various effects, particularly when the effect has no exact power equivalent.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Damaging Psionic Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic items should always get a saving throw against powers or spells that might deal damage to them\emdash 
even against attacks from which a mundane item would normally get no chance to save. All types of psionic item saves\emdash Fortitude, Reflex, and Will\emdash 
are calculated the same way: The saving throw bonus equals 2 + one-half its manifester level (round down). The only exceptions to this are intelligent psionic items, which make Will saves based on their own Wisdom scores.
\par A psionic item, unless otherwise noted, takes damage as a normal item of the same type. A damaged psionic item continues to function until completely broken (that is, its hit points are exhausted).
\par }{\caps\expnd-1\expndtw-5 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Item Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {In the following sections, each general type of psionic item gets an overall description, followed by descriptions of specific items.

\par General descriptions include notes on activation, random generation, and other material. The AC, hardness, hit points, and break DC are given for typical examples of some types of psionic items. The AC assumes that the item is unattended and includes a 
\endash 5 penalty for the item\rquote s effective Dexterity of 0. If a creature holds the item, use the creature\rquote s Dexterity modifier in place of the \endash 5 penalty.
\par Some individual items, notably those that simply store psionic powers and nothing else, don\rquote t get full-blown descriptions. Simply reference the power\rquote s description. Assume that the power is manifested at the minimum level require
d to manifest it, unless the creator chooses to make it higher for some reason. Doing so increases the cost of the item. 
\par Items with full descriptions have their abilities detailed, and each of the following aspects of the item is summarized at the end of the description.
\par Manifester Level: The level of the creator (or the manifester level of the psionic powers placed within the item, if lower than the actual level of the creator). The manifester level provides the item\rquote s saving throw bonus, as well as range
 and other level-dependent aspects of the powers of the item (if variable). It also determines the level that must be contended with should the item come under the effect of a negate psionics power or similar situation.
\par Prerequisites: The requirements that must be met in order for a character to make the item. These include feats, psionic powers, and miscellaneous requirements such as level, alignment, and race or kind.
\par Market Price: The going rate if a ch
aracter wants to buy the item. Market price is also included on the random tables for easy reference. The market price for an item that can be constructed with the item creation feats is usually equal to the base price plus the price for any components (s
pecial materials or experience point expenditure).
\par Important: All market prices given for psionic items assume that the item\rquote s creator used the Metacreative feat in its construction, unless noted \- otherwise.
\par Cost to Create: The cost in gp and XP to create 
the item. This entry appears only for items with components (material or XP) that make their market prices higher than their base prices. The cost to create includes the costs derived from the base cost plus the cost of the components. Items without compo
nents do not have a \'93Cost to Create\'94 entry. For them, the market price and base price are the same. The cost in gp is half the market price, and the cost in XP is 1/25 the market price.
\par Weight: An entry of \'93\emdash \'94 indicates an item that has no weight worth noting.
\par 
\par Unless otherwise noted, all psionic items follow the same rules for pricing and construction as magical items.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Random Psionic Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Random Psionic Item Generation
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Item
\par 01\endash 02\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab Armor
\par 03\endash 04\tab \tab 06\endash 10\tab \tab 06\endash 10\tab \tab Shields
\par 05\endash 06\tab \tab 11\endash 15\tab \tab 11\endash 15\tab \tab Melee weapons
\par 08\endash 09\tab \tab 16\endash 20\tab \tab 16\endash 20\tab \tab Ranged weapons
\par 10\endash 40\tab \tab 21\endash 40\tab \tab 21\endash 35\tab \tab Psionic tattoos
\par 41\endash 46\tab \tab 41\endash 50\tab \tab 36\endash 45\tab \tab Crystal capacitors
\par 47\endash 81\tab \tab 51\endash 68\tab \tab 46\endash 75\tab \tab Power stones
\par 82\endash 91\tab \tab 69\endash 83\tab \tab 76\endash 80\tab \tab Dorjes
\par 92\endash 100\tab 84\endash 100\tab 81\endash 100\tab Universal items
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Armor and Shields
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
In general, psionic armor and shields follow the rules for the equivalent magic items, as far as enhancement bonuses, stacking, and other base abilities are concerned. An enhancement bonus is an enhancement bonus, regardless whether magic or psionics
 created it.
\par Special Qualities: Roll d%. An 01 result indicates the item is intelligent, a 02\endash 31 result indicates that the command thought (if any) is psionically encoded and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 32\endash 
100 indicates no special qualities.
\par Intelligent items have extra abilities and sometimes also extraordinary powers and special purposes.
\par 
\par Table: Armor Special Abilities
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Special\tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Ability\tab \tab \tab Modifier
\par 01\endash 30\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab Landing\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 06\endash 07\tab \tab 06\endash 07\tab \tab Reinforcement, light\tab +1 bonus
\par 31\endash 52\tab \tab 08\endash 19\tab \tab 09\tab \tab Floating\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 53\endash 74\tab \tab 20\endash 30\tab \tab 10\endash 11\tab \tab Quickness\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 75\endash 96\tab \tab 31\endash 49\tab \tab 12\endash 14\tab \tab Sight\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 50\tab \tab 15\endash 16\tab \tab Power resistance (13)\tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 60\tab \tab 17\endash 21\tab \tab Phasing\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 22\endash 23\tab \tab Crystalline\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par 97\endash 98\tab \tab 61\endash 65\tab \tab 24\endash 27\tab \tab Reinforcement,\tab +3 bonus
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab moderate
\par \emdash \tab \tab 66\tab \tab 28\endash 29\tab \tab Power resistance (15)\tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 67\endash 71\tab \tab 30\endash 31\tab \tab Mindarmor\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 72\endash 76\tab \tab 32\endash 41\tab \tab Linked\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 77\endash 81\tab \tab 42\endash 51\tab \tab Vanishing\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 82\endash 86\tab \tab 52\endash 61\tab \tab Ectoplasmic\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 87\endash 91\tab \tab 62\endash 64\tab \tab Aporter\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 92\endash 94\tab \tab 65\endash 67\tab \tab Power resistance (17)\tab +4 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 95\tab \tab 68\endash 69\tab \tab Radiant\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 98\tab \tab 70\endash 72\tab \tab Reinforcement, heavy\tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 73\endash 74\tab \tab Power resistance (19)\tab +5 bonus
\par 99\endash 100\tab 99\endash 100\tab 75\endash 100\tab Roll twice again*
\par 
\par *If an ability is rolled twice, only one counts. If the roll gives two versions of the same special ability, use the better.
\par 
\par Table: Shield Special Abilities
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Special\tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Ability\tab \tab \tab Modifier
\par 01\endash 30\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Hearten\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 31\endash 50\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Ranged\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 51\endash 60\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Reinforcement, light\tab +1 bonus
\par 61\endash 99\tab \tab 01\endash 10\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Thought bastion\tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 11\endash 16\tab \tab 01\endash 15\tab \tab Averter\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 17\endash 20\tab \tab 16\endash 20\tab \tab Power resistance (13)\tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 21\endash 25\tab \tab 21\endash 25\tab \tab Wall\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 26\endash 30\tab \tab 26\endash 35\tab \tab Reinforcement,\tab +3 bonus
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab moderate
\par \emdash \tab \tab 31\endash 40\tab \tab 36\endash 38\tab \tab Mindarmor\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 41\endash 50\tab \tab 39\endash 41\tab \tab Linked\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 60\tab \tab 42\endash 44\tab \tab Vanishing\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 61\endash 70\tab \tab 45\endash 47\tab \tab Manifester\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 71\endash 80\tab \tab 48\endash 50\tab \tab Aporter\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 55\tab \tab Power resistance (15)\tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 56\endash 60\tab \tab Power resistance (17)\tab +4 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 61\endash 65\tab \tab Reinforcement, heavy\tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 81\endash 90\tab \tab 66\endash 70\tab \tab Time buttress\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 71\endash 80\tab \tab Power resistance (19)\tab +5 bonus
\par 100\tab \tab 91\endash 100\tab 81\endash 100\tab Roll twice again*
\par *If an ability is rolled twice, only one counts. If the roll gives two versions of the same special ability, use the better.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Armor and Shield Special Abilities Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Most psionic armor and shields only have enhancement bonuses. Such items can also have the special abilities detaile
d here. Armor or a shield with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par Aporter: As a move-equivalent action, this suit of armor or shield instantly transports the wearer and his or her equipment to any spot within 800 feet that he or s
he can visualize or specify, as the dimension door power. The armor or shield can transport the wearer in this fashion twice per day.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, dimension door; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Averter: On 
command, up to three times per day, any creature to whom the wearer presents this shield must succeed at a Will save (DC 13) or be overcome by a powerful aversion to the wielder (actually the shield), and will not approach within 30 feet. This is a mind-a
ffecting compulsion effect, as the aversion power.
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, aversion; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Crystalline: This armor is made completely of crystal, although it possess all the qualities of armor of its type. Gleams and flashes within the crystal give the wearer and the armor a \'93fuzzy\'94
 appearance, granting the wearer one-half concealment. This concealment translates into a 20% miss chance for each attack. 
\par Manifester Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, displacement; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Ectoplasmic: As a move-equivalent action, this armor converts itself, its wearer, and all the wearer\rquote s equipment into ectoplasmic form for up to 15 
minutes per day, similar to the power ectoplasmic form. In this semiliquid state the wearer gains damage reduction 20/+1. The wearer can take on ectoplasmic form in increments of up to 5 minutes, but even 1 round spent in ectoplasmic form counts as one su
ch increment.
\par Manifester Level: 8th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, ectoplasmic form; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Floating: This armor is psionically buoyant in water or similar liquid, negating the normal Swim check penalty for wearing armor. Additionally, it grants a +4 circumstance bonus on Swim checks.
\par Manifester Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, float; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Hearten: This shield grants the owner up to 5 temporary hit points per day on command. These temporary hit points fade after 4 minutes. The wearer can activate this power as a free action at any time.
\par Manifester Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, verve; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Landing: A suit of armor with this capability appears normal. The wearer, however, automatically ignores any damage dealt by the first 20 feet of a fall. Regardless of the height of the fall, the wearer always lands on his or her feet.
\par Manifester Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, catfall; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Linked: The wearer of this armor or shield forms a telepathic bond with other wearers of linked armor or shields within 10 miles. This ability is otherwise similar to the mindlink power.
\par Manifester Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, mindlink; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Manifester: This shield must have at least one other special quality with a specified number of uses per day. It allows the wielder to use that ability more often than otherwise allowed. Fo
r each additional use, the wielder pays 5 power points as a standard action.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, psychic chirurgery; Market Price: +4 bonus.
\par 
\par Mindarmor: This armor or shield grants the wearer a +4 bonus on Will saving throws to resist all mind-affecting and/or compulsion powers.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, negate psionics; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Phasing: The wearer of this armor can move through wooden, plaster, or st
one walls, but not other materials. Each day, the wearer can pass through a total length of 60 feet, breaking this distance up into several smaller passages or one long one, as desired. A wearer who exceeds this daily allotment is ejected from the materia
l at the point of entry, ending up prone in front of the now impassible wall.
\par Manifester Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, phase door; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Power Resistance: This ability grants the armor\rquote s wearer power resistance while the armor is worn. The power resistance can be PR 13, PR 15, PR 17, or PR 19, depending on the armor.
\par Manifester Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, power resistance; Market Price: +2 bonus (PR 13); +3 bonus (PR 15); +4 bonus (PR 17); or +5 bonus (PR 19).
\par 
\par Quickness: This armor increases the wearer\rquote s speed by 5 feet. 
\par Manifester Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, burst; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Radiant: The wearer gains e
nergy resistance 10 against energy attacks (acid, cold, electricity, fire, and sonic). The armor absorbs the first 10 points of damage dealt by any such attack, causing it to shine for a number of rounds equal to the points of damage absorbed. This light 
is sufficient to illuminate a 60-foot-radius area.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor; energy barrier; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par 
\par Ranged: The wielder of this shield can throw it in combat, with a range increment of 30 feet. Wh
ile in the air, the shield is treated in all ways as a ranged weapon and cannot be blocked or grabbed except by appropriate feats. No matter the size of the wielder, a small shield deals 1d6 points of damage and a large one 1d8. The wielder\rquote 
s Strength modifier (if within 30 feet of the target) and the shield\rquote s enhancement bonus, if any, add to the base damage.
\par Whether it misses or strikes its target, the shield returns through the air to the wielder that threw it. It returns on the next move-equivalent acti
on of the wielder, who can also take a move-equivalent action as the shield returns. If no clear route exists back to the wielder, the shield falls to the ground. 
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, far hand; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Reinforcement: When a critical hit or sneak attack is scored on the wearer, there is a chance that the critical or sneak attack is negated and damage is instead rolled normally: 
\par Reinforcement\tab Chance to \tab \tab Market 
\par Type\tab \tab Negate Damage\tab Price
\par Minor\tab   \tab 25%\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par Medium\tab 75%\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par Greater\tab \tab 100%\tab \tab \tab +5 bonus
\par 
\par Manifester Level: 13th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, iron body; Market Price: varies (see above).
\par 
\par Seeing: This armor grants a wider than normal field of vision, so that oppo
nents flanking the wearer gain only a +1 bonus on their attack rolls instead of +2 (rogues still get their sneak attack because the wearer is still partly flanked). The wearer gains a +1 enhancement bonus on all Spot checks but concurrently suffers a 
\endash 2 penalty on saves against all gaze attacks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, expanded vision; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Thought Bastion: This shield protects the wielder as the Psychic Bastion feat. While holding the shield, the wielder gains mental hardness +1 against a foe\rquote s successful psionic attack\emdash 
even id insinuation. This bonus stacks with other mental hardness bonuses due to the Psychic Bastion feat or through psionic defense modes.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Psychic Bastion, thought shield; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Time Buttress: This shield gives the wielder a chance to avoid telling blows by reliving the last few moments of combat. Once per day, the wielder can use time regression as though manifesting the power.
\par Manifester Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, time regression; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par 
\par Vanishing: On command, this suit of armor or shield renders its wearer and all the wearer\rquote s equipment invisible. This invisibility is broken by the standard methods. The wearer can use this ability twice per day.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, invisibility; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Wall: As a standa
rd action, the wielder can hold forth this shield and command a wall of ectoplasm to grow from the edges of the shield. This forms a wall whose area is up to 120 feet square or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 12 feet. The shield remains part
 of the wall until the duration elapses or until repossessed by the wearer, at which time the wall of ectoplasm dissipates.
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, wall of ectoplasm; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Weapons
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic weap
ons have enhancement bonuses ranging from +1 to +5. They apply these bonuses to both attack and damage rolls when used in combat. All psionic weapons are also masterwork weapons, but their masterwork bonus to attack does not stack with their enhancement b
onus to attack. 
\par Weapons come in two basic categories: melee and ranged. Some of the weapons listed as melee weapons can also be used as ranged weapons. In this case, their enhancement bonus applies to either type of attack.
\par Many psionic weapons only have enhancement bonuses. Such items can also have the special abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par Mentally Audible: Fully 30% of psionic weapons telepathically mutter, croon, recite battle poems, scream, or produce other mental \'93noises\'94
 when first drawn, at first blood, or when they slay a significant enemy. These telepathic weapons are obviously psionic. Such a weapon can\rquote t be concealed from creatures within 15 feet when drawn, nor can its mental \'93soundtrack\'94 be curbed.

\par Activation: Usually a character benefits from a psionic weapon in exactly the way a character benefits from a mundane weapon\emdash by attacking with it. If a weapon has a special ability that the user needs to activate, then the user usual
ly needs to project the command thought (a standard action).
\par Special Qualities: Roll d%. A 01\endash 20 result indicates that the item produces telepathic \'93noise\'94 when first drawn or at first blood (\'93audible\'94 to all within 15 feet), 21\endash 25 indicates that the weapon is intelligent, 26\endash 
35 indicates that the weapon is both intelligent and produces telepathic noise, 36\endash 50 indicates that the command thought (if any) is psionically encoded and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 51\endash 100 indicates no 
special qualities.
\par 
\par Table: Melee Weapon Special Abilities
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab Special\tab \tab Market \tab \tab Price
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Ability\tab \tab \tab Modifier
\par 01\endash 15\tab \tab 01\endash 10\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Lucky\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 16\endash 45\tab \tab 11\endash 25\tab \tab 01\endash 09\tab \tab Charged\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 46\endash 55\tab \tab 26\endash 30\tab \tab 10\endash 12\tab \tab Dissipater\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 56\endash 70\tab \tab 31\endash 40\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Impact\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 71\endash 80\tab \tab 41\endash 50\tab \tab 13\endash 17\tab \tab Sunderer\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 81\endash 89\tab \tab 51\tab \tab 18\endash 19\tab \tab Power storing\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 90\endash 99\tab \tab 52\endash 56\tab \tab 20\endash 21\tab \tab Parrying\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 57\endash 65\tab \tab 22\endash 33\tab \tab Suppression\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 66\endash 71\tab \tab 34\endash 41\tab \tab Body feeder\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 72\endash 79\tab \tab 42\endash 47\tab \tab Mind feeder\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 80\endash 85\tab \tab 48\endash 57\tab \tab Psibane\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 86\endash 88\tab \tab 58\endash 62\tab \tab Soul feeder\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 89\endash 91\tab \tab 63\endash 67\tab \tab Mindcrusher\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 92\tab \tab 68\endash 73\tab \tab Manifester\tab \tab +4 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 93\tab \tab 74\endash 76\tab \tab Coup de grace\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 94\endash 95\tab \tab 77\endash 80\tab \tab Psychic\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par 100\tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab 81\endash 100\tab Roll again twice*\tab \emdash 
\par *Reroll if the result is a duplicate special ability, an ability incompatible with an ability that already rolled, or if the extra ability puts the weapon over the +10 limit. A weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus and special ability bonus equivalents can
\rquote t total more than +10.
\par 
\par Table: Ranged Weapon Special Abilities
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Special\tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Ability\tab \tab \tab Modifier
\par 01\endash 20\tab \tab 01\endash 15\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Teleporting\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 21\endash 40\tab \tab 16\endash 30\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab Impact\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 41\endash 100\tab 31\endash 45\tab \tab 01\endash 30\tab \tab Charged\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 46\endash 50\tab \tab 31\endash 40\tab \tab Suppression\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 66\tab \tab 41\endash 65\tab \tab Psychokinetic burst\tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 67\endash 74\tab \tab 66\endash 70\tab \tab Psibane\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 75\endash 82\tab \tab 71\endash 75\tab \tab Dislocator\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 83\endash 98\tab \tab 76\endash 85\tab \tab Great dislocator\tab +4 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 86\endash 90\tab \tab Manifester\tab \tab +4 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 91\endash 97\tab \tab Coup de grace\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par \emdash \tab \tab 99\endash 100\tab 98\endash 100\tab Roll again twice*\tab \emdash 
\par *Reroll if the result is a duplicate special ability, an ability incompatible with an ability that already rolled, or if the extra ability puts the weapon over the +10 limit. A weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus and special ability bonus equivalents can
\rquote t total more than +10.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Weapon Special Abilities Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Most psionic weapons only have enhancement bonuses. They can also have the special abilities detailed here. A weapon with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par 
\par Body Feeder: All feeder weapons have a special ability that functions on scoring a successful critical hit. A body feeder weapon grants its wielder temporary hit points equal to the total damage dealt by a successful
 critical hit. These temporary hit points last 10 minutes.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, claws of the vampire, metaphysical weapon; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Charged: Upon command, this weapon glows from the inside wit
h lethal psionic energy. The energy does not harm the hands that hold the weapon. Charged weapons deal +1d4 points of bonus damage on a successful hit. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow the energy upon their ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Psionic Weapon, metaphysical weapon; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Coup de Grace: Once per day, the wielder can use a full attack action to make on
e attack that, if it hits, strikes the foe as if the wielder had delivered a coup de grace. On a miss, the use is wasted for the day. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this power on their ammunition.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Deep Impact, greater domination; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par }{
\par Dislocator: The wielder of this weapon can attempt to dislocate a designated foe up to three times per day. On a successful hit, the foe must succeed at a Will save (DC 17) or be teleported 1\endash 
100 miles in a random direction. If the weapon misses, the use is wasted. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this power on their ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, teleport; Market Price: +3 bonus. 
\par 
\par Di
ssipater: This weapon is devastating to creatures and objects composed of or originally formed from ectoplasm (such as astral constructs, walls of ectoplasm, creatures in ectoplasmic form, and items created using the Metacreativity discipline). Against qu
alifying targets, a dissipater weapon ignores damage reduction and treats all successful hits as critical hits. 
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, dismiss ectoplasm; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Great Dislocator: The wielder o
f this weapon can attempt to dislocate a designated foe up to three times per day. On a successful hit, the foe must succeed at a Will save (DC 20) or be cast into a random alternate plane of existence (such as the Astral Plane, the Plane of Shadow, or ev
en the Abyss). If the weapon misses, the use is wasted. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow their effects upon their ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, plane shift; Market Price: +4 bonus.
\par 
\par Impact: Impact weapons deal +2 points of bonus damage on each successful strike, in addition to the weapon\rquote s enhancement bonus. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow the bonus damage upon their ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, matter rearrangement; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Lucky: Once per day, the wielder can reroll a failed attack roll (whether a single attack or one in a series of multiple attacks) as a free action. The rerolled attack uses the same bonuses or penalties as the missed roll.
\par Manifester Level: 8th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, fate of one; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Manifester: This weapon must have at least one other special quality with a specified number of uses per day. It allows the wielder to use tha
t ability more often than otherwise allowed. For each additional use, the wielder pays 5 power points as a standard action. Power storing weapons (see below) with this quality do not lose the power stored\emdash unless the wielder so desires\emdash 
but instead allow the
 wielder to manifest that power over and over by paying power points commensurate with the level of the power stored. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their ammunition if the wielder makes the same power point payment.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, psychic chirurgery; Market Price: +4 bonus.
\par 
\par Mindcrusher: Any psionic creature struck in combat by this weapon loses a number of power points equal to the points of damage dealt. A creature that is out of
 power points, or a psionic creature that freely manifests its powers, must succeed at a Will save (DC 17) or take 1d2 points of temporary Wisdom damage.
\par Manifester Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, disarm mind; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Mind Feeder: A mind feeder weapon grants its wielder temporary power points equal to the total damage dealt by a successful critical hit. These temporary power points last 10 minutes. The wielder gains power points even 
if the target has none (its hit points are converted).
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, metaphysical weapon, psychic vampire; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Parrying: The weapon grants a +1 insight bonus to the wielder\rquote s Armor Class. The bonus is granted whenever the wielder holds the weapon, even if flat-footed.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, combat precognition; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Power Storing: A power storing weapon allows a manife
ster to store a single targeted psionic power of up to 3rd level in the weapon. (The power must have a manifestation time of 1 action.) Any time the weapon strikes a creature and the creature takes damage from it, the weapon can immediately manifest the p
o
wer on that creature as a free action if the wielder desires. (This ability is a special exception to the general rule that manifesting a power from an item takes at least as long as manifesting that power normally.) Once the power has been manifested, th
e
 weapon is empty, and a manifester can imbed any other targeted power of up to 3rd level into it. The weapon telepathically whispers to the wearer the name of the power currently stored within it. A randomly rolled power storing weapon has a 50% chance to
 have a power stored in it already. Psionic attack modes cannot be stored.
\par Manifester Level: 8th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, creator must be a manifester of at least 12th level; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Psibane: A psibane weapon deals +2d6
 points of bonus damage against all psionic opponents. It bestows one negative level on any psionic creature attempting to wield it. This negative level remains as long as the weapon is in hand and disappears when the weapon is no longer wielded. This neg
ative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome in any way while the weapon is wielded. Psibane bows, crossbows, and slings bestow this ability upon their \- ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 7th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, concussion; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Psychic: A psychic weapon\rquote s power depends on its wielder. In the hands of a nonpsionic creature, it possesses the qualities of a mundane weapon of its type. When wielded by a psionic creature, however, the weapon\rquote 
s abilities are revealed and become functional, based on the wielder\rquote s current power point reserve. The enhancement bonus and special abilities noted below do not stack: A wielder with 15+ power points doesn\rquote 
t also have access to powers revealed at lower reserves. 
\par Available abilities cannot exceed a +2 bonus to market price, as noted below. The DM chooses or rolls randomly on Table: Melee Weapon Special Abilities. Once a bonus ability is revealed, it is \'93locked in.\'94
\par Power Point\tab Enhancement
\par Reserve\tab Bonus\tab \tab Special Ability
\par 1+\tab \tab +1\tab \tab None
\par 5+\tab \tab +1\tab \tab One +1 bonus ability
\par 15+\tab \tab +2\tab \tab One +1 bonus ability
\par 30+\tab \tab +2\tab \tab Two +1 bonus abilities
\par 50+\tab \tab +3\tab \tab Two +1 bonus abilities
\par 80+\tab \tab +3\tab \tab Two +1, one +2 bonus abilities
\par 130+\tab \tab +4\tab \tab Two +1, one +2 bonus abilities
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, emulate power, metaphysical weapon, and powers specifically imprinted; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par 
\par Psychokinetic Burst: This weapon releases a blast of destructive psionic energy upon striking a successful critical hit. Psychokinetic burst weapons deal +1d10 points of bonus damage on a successful critical hit. If the weapon\rquote 
s critical multiplier is x3, add +2d10 points of bonus damage instead, and if the multiplier is x4, add +3d10 points of bonus damage. Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow the energy upon their ammunition.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, concussion, metaphysical weapon; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Soul Feeder: On a successful critical hit, a soul feeder weapon bestows one negative level on the foe. One day after being struck, the subject must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 18) for each negative level or lose a character level.
\par Manifester Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, metaphysical weapon, mindwipe; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par 
\par Sundering: This weapon allows a wielder with the Sunder feat to attack opponents\rquote  weapons as if with the Great Sunder feat. Only one such attempt is allowed per round.
\par Manifester Level: 8th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, Great Sunder, lesser metaphysical weapon; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par 
\par Suppression: An opponent or object struck by this weapon is subject to a targeted negate psionics power. The wielder makes a power check at 1d20+5 + manifester level (maximum +15) against a DC of 11+the power to be negated\rquote s manifester level.
 Bows, crossbows, and slings bestow the negating effect upon their ammunition but may only do so three times per day.}{\ul 
\par }{Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, negate psionics; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par 
\par Teleporting: This ability can only be imbedded in weapons that can be thrown. A teleporting weapon returns through the Astral Plane to the creature that threw it. It teleports into the throwing creature\rquote 
s empty hand on the round following the round that it was thrown, just before that creature\rquote s turn. It is therefore ready to use again that turn.
\par Manifester Level: 7th; Prerequisites: Craft Psionic Arms and Armor, dimension door; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crystal Capacitors
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Crystal capacitors store power points that psionic characters can use to pay for manifesting their powers. 
\par Physical Description: A crystal capacitor consists of a core crystal and two or three smaller crystals, arranged on strands of wir
e, in specific positions around it. The crystals give off a faint glow. A typical crystal capacitor weighs approximately 1 pound, has an AC of 7, 10 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 16.
\par Activation: The user must project a command thought to unlock power points stored in a crystal capacitor. This allows the use of the points to manifest psionic powers the user knows.
\par The maximum number of points a crystal capacitor can store is always an odd number, and is never more than 17. It can never store more power points than its original maximum, set at the time of its creation. Once a crystal capacitor\rquote 
s power points are used up, its crystals dim. However, the user can recharge it by paying power points on a 1-for-1 basis. While this depletes the user\rquote 
s own power point reserve for the day, those power points remain available in the crystal capacitor until used.
\par A user cannot directly replenish personal power points from those stored in a crystal capacitor, nor can the user draw power points from more than one source to manifest a power or attack/defense mode. 
\par Random Generation: To generate crystal capacitors randomly, roll on Table: Crystal Capacitors.
\par Special Qualities: Roll d%. A 01\endash 25 result indicates that the command thought is mentally encoded and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 26\endash 100 indicates no special qualities.
\par 
\par Table: Crystal Capacitors
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Maximum Power
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab Point Storage\tab \tab Market Price
\par 01\endash 100\tab 01\endash 40\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 1\tab \tab 1,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 41\endash 74\tab \tab \emdash \tab  \tab 3\tab \tab 4,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 75\endash 89\tab \tab 01\endash 39\tab   \tab 5\tab \tab 9,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 90\endash 98\tab \tab 40\endash 59\tab  \tab 7\tab \tab 16,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 99\endash 100\tab 60\endash 69\tab \tab 9\tab \tab 25,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 70\endash 70\tab \tab 11\tab \tab 36,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 80\endash 89\tab \tab 13\tab \tab 49,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 90\endash 95\tab \tab 15\tab \tab 64,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab 17\tab \tab 81,000 gp
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dorjes
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A dorje is a slender crystal that contains a single power. Each dorje has 50 charges when created, and each charge expended allows one use of that power. A dorje that runs out of charges is just a simple crystal.
\par Physical Description: A typical dorje is an
 elongated crystal of one color (or colorless), between 8 inches and 10 inches long and about 1/2 inch thick, and can weigh up to 1/4 pound. Occasionally, a dorje is decorated with carvings or inscribed runes along a face of the crystal. A typical dorje h
as an AC of 7, 7 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 18.
\par Activation: Dorjes use the command thought activation method, so manifesting a power from a dorje is usually a standard action that doesn\rquote t provoke attacks of opportunity. (If the power bei
ng manifested has a longer manifestation time than 1 action, however, it takes that long to manifest the power from a dorje.) The user must have the power on his or her class list, even if he or she knows the command thought. Additionally, to activate a d
orje, a character must hold it in hand and point it in the general direction of the target or area.
\par Random Generation: To generate dorjes randomly, roll on Table: Dorjes.
\par Special Qualities: Roll d%. A 01\endash 30 result indicates that the command thought is mentally encoded and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 31\endash 100 indicates no special qualities.
\par 
\par Table: Dorjes
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Power Level*\tab \tab Market Price**
\par 01\endash 25\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 0\tab \tab \tab \tab 375 gp
\par 26\endash 50\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 1st\tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par 51\endash 95\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 2nd \tab \tab \tab \tab 4,500 gp
\par 96-100\tab \tab 06\endash 65\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 3rd \tab \tab \tab \tab 11,250 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 66\endash 95\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab 4th\tab \tab \tab \tab 21,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab 06\endash 50\tab \tab 5th\tab \tab \tab \tab 33,750 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 70\tab \tab 6th\tab \tab \tab \tab 49,500 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 71\endash 85\tab \tab 7th\tab \tab \tab \tab 68,250 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 86\endash 95\tab \tab 8th\tab \tab \tab \tab 90,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab 9th\tab \tab \tab \tab 114,750 gp
\par *Dorjes could have higher manifester levels than the minimum, which would give them commensurately highter costs.  Unlike magical wands, dorjes can hold powers up to 9th level.
\par **Any dorje that stores a psionic power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost above that noted here.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Stones
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A power stone stores a psionic power (or collection of powers). A stored power can be used only once, \'93flushing\'94
 the stone. Using a power stone is basically like manifesting a psionic power.
\par Physical Description: A power stone is a t
humb-sized chunk of crystal, which possesses a barely detectable interior glow while it holds a power. A stone encoded with more than one power or higher-level powers glows more brightly, but never enough to provide illumination in its own right. A typica
l power stone has an AC of 7, 5 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 20.
\par Activation: To activate a power stone, a manifester must mentally contact it. Doing so involves several steps and \- conditions.
\par Address the Stone: The power stone must be \'93hailed\'94
 before a character can use it or know exactly what power it contains. This requires a successful Psicraft check (DC 15 + power level). Once a particular power stone has been addressed, it is not necessary to do so again. Addressing a power stone in a
dvance lets a character proceed directly to the next step when the time comes to use it.
\par Activate the Power: Activating a power stone requires holding the stone and willing the power\rquote s manifestation, as if manifesting a power normally. Activating a power s
tone is subject to disruption just as manifesting a normally manifested power would be.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Additionally, the user must meet the following requirements:
\par }{\bullet \tab The user must have the power on his or her class list.
\par \bullet \tab The user must have the requisite ability score.
\par If the user meets these requirements and has a manifester level at least equal to that required to manifest the power, he or she can automatically activate the power without a check. If he or she meets both requirements but his or her own level is below t
he power stone\rquote s manifester level, then he or she has to make a manifester level check (1d20 + user\rquote s level), against a DC equal to the power stone\rquote 
s manifester level +1, to manifest the power successfully. On a failure, the user must succeed at a Wisdom check (DC 5) to avoid brainburn (see below). A natural roll of 1 always fails, whatever the modifiers.
\par Determine Effect: A power successfully activated from a power stone works exactly as if manifested normally. Assume the power stone\rquote s manifester level is a
lways the minimum level required to manifest the power for the character who encoded the stone (usually twice the power\rquote s level), unless the creator specifically desires otherwise.
\par A power stone\rquote s glow fades when its power is flushed.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Brainburn: When thing
s go awry, the user of a psionic item sometimes improperly manifests the stored power. The resultant psionic surge persists for 1d4 rounds, unless the power stone is flung 15 feet or feet away or destroyed. The surge deals 1d4 points of electricity damage
 per power stored per round and arcs across multiple targets, similar to biocurrent: The user is the primary target, and one nearby ally is the secondary target (chosen at random). 
\par Random Generation: To generate power stones randomly, first determine how m
any powers are encoded in the stone, according to Table: Powers Encoded in a Power Stone. For each encoded power, roll on Table: Stone Power Levels to determine its level, then choose the specific power of a given level.
\par 
\par }{ Table: Powers Encoded in a Power Stone
\par Power Stone Type\tab Number of Powers
\par Minor\tab \tab \tab 1d3 powers
\par Medium\tab \tab 1d4 powers
\par Major\tab \tab \tab 1d6 powers
\par 
\par Table: Stone Power Levels
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Power Level\tab Market Price*
\par 01\endash 25\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 0\tab \tab 25 gp
\par 26\endash 50\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 1st\tab \tab 25 gp
\par 51\endash 95\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 2nd\tab \tab 150 gp
\par 96\endash 100\tab 06\endash 65\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 3rd\tab \tab 375 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 66\endash 95\tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab 4th\tab \tab 700 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab 06\endash 50\tab \tab 5th\tab \tab 1,125 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 70\tab \tab 6th\tab \tab 1,650 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 71\endash 85\tab \tab 7th\tab \tab 2,275 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 86\endash 95\tab \tab 8th\tab \tab 3,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 95\endash 100\tab 9th\tab \tab 3,825 gp
\par *Any power stone that encodes a psionic power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost above that noted here. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Tattoos
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic tattoos are designs scribed on the skin that manifest powers on their wearers. The wearer doesn\rquote 
t get to make any decisions about the tattoo\rquote s effect\emdash the manifester who scribed it has already done so.
\par Psionic tattoos may vary in size, but a creature can only wear a total of seventeen tattoos\emdash adding one more causes all the scribed tattoos to simultaneously \'93go off.\'94 A psionic tattoo fades away after use.
\par Physical Description: A typical psionic tattoo is a colorful pattern of hundreds of tiny, interlacing lines within a larger design. Once scribed, the tattoo\rquote 
s design does not change. A psionic tattoo usually covers an area of skin no more than 5 inches in diameter (larger ones could be designed, but would have no added effect).
\par Scribing and Transferring Tattoos: The manifester level for a psionic tattoo is the minimum level required to manifest the scribed power. A psionic tattoo can contain only powers of level 0 to 3.
\par A psioni
c tattoo inscribed on a wearer is potentially more mobile than a mundane tattoo. As a standard action, the wearer can will the tattoo to a different part of his or her body or onto the skin of any willing (or unconscious) living creature he or she touches
.
 If the wearer of a psionic tattoo is rendered unconscious or is slain, another sentient creature can touch the tattoo and will it to leave the previous wearer and apply itself to the new creature as a standard action. Psionic tattoos cannot overlay one a
nother. 
\par Identifying Psionic Tattoos: In addition to the standard methods of identification, the wearer of a tattoo can concentrate on it and attempt to gain some sense of how it would feel if activated. A successful Intelligence check (DC 13) provides a hi
nt to the tattoo\rquote s effect.
\par Activation: A psionic tattoo produces its effect when touched by its wearer and willed to do so (this is called \'93tapping\'94). Tapping a tattoo is a standard action. A psionic tattoo fades away after use.
\par The following rules govern the use of psionic tattoos:
\par \bullet \tab A creature must have an appropriate physical surface on which to scribe the pattern (thus, incorporeal creatures cannot use psionic tattoos).
\par \bullet \tab Tapping a psionic tattoo provokes attacks of opportunity. A successful attack (inc
luding grappling attacks) against the wearer forces a Concentration check. A wearer who fails this check cannot concentrate effectively on the tattoo to use it. The tattoo remains untapped, and the wearer can make another attempt.
\par \bullet \tab A character can trigger the effects of another\rquote s psionic tattoo if the other wearer is unconscious. It is a full-round action to find, touch, and concentrate on the unconscious creature\rquote s tattoo.
\par Random Generation: To generate psionic tattoos randomly, roll on Table: Psionic Tattoos, then choose the specific power of a given level.
\par 
\par Table: Psionic Tattoos
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab \tab Power Level\tab Market Price
\par 01\endash 25\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 0\tab \~\tab 25 gp
\par 26\endash 47\tab \tab 01\endash 08\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 1st\tab \tab \~50 gp
\par 47\endash 98\tab \tab 09\endash 75\tab \tab 01\endash 50\tab \tab 2nd\tab \tab 300 gp
\par 99\endash 100\tab 76\endash 100\tab 51\endash 100\tab 3rd\tab \tab 750 gp
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This is a catch-all category for anything that doesn\rquote 
t fall into the other groups. Anyone can use a universal item (unless specified otherwise in the description).
\par Physical Description: Varies.
\par Activation: Usually use a command thought, but details vary from item to item.
\par Random Generation: To generate universal items randomly, roll on Table: Universal Psionic Items.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Special Qualities: Roll d%. An 01 result indicates the universal item is intelligent, 02\endash 31 indicates that the command thought is mentally encoded and whispers itself into the user\rquote s mind on acquisition, and 32\endash 
100 indicates no special qualities. 
\par }{\caps 
\par }{Table: Universal Psionic Items
\par Minor\tab \tab Medium\tab Major\tab Item\tab \tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par 01\endash 02\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+1)\tab \tab \tab 20 gp
\par 03\endash 04\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+2)\tab \tab \tab 30 gp
\par 05\endash 07\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+3)\tab \tab \tab 40 gp
\par 08\endash 09\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crawling tattoo (0-level)\tab 50 gp
\par 10\endash 11\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+4)\tab \tab \tab 60 gp
\par 12\endash 14\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crawling tattoo (1st-level)\tab 100 gp
\par 15\endash 16\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+5)\tab \tab \tab 100 gp
\par 17\endash 18\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+6)\tab \tab \tab 140 gp
\par 19\endash 21\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+7)\tab \tab \tab 200 gp
\par 22\endash 23\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+8)\tab \tab \tab 250 gp
\par 24\endash 25\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+9)\tab \tab \tab 320 gp
\par 26\endash 28\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Shard (+10)\tab \tab \tab 400 gp
\par 29\endash 30\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal mask of knowledge\tab 500 gp
\par 31\endash 32\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal mask of language\tab 500 gp
\par 33\endash 35\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crawling tattoo (2nd-level)\tab 600 gp
\par 36\endash 37\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Brain lock pearl\tab \tab 1,000 gp
\par 38\endash 39\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionic restraints, lesser\tab 1,000 gp
\par 40\endash 42\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Powerleech pearl\tab \tab 1,000 gp
\par 43\endash 44\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Boots of stomping\tab \tab 1,200 gp
\par 45\endash 46\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crawling tattoo (3rd-level)\tab 1,400 gp
\par 47\endash 49\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Boots of skating\tab \tab 2,000 gp
\par 50\endash 51\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Gloves of object reading\tab 2,000 gp
\par 52\endash 53\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Clairsentience\tab 2,000 gp
\par 54\endash 55\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Metacreativity\tab 2,000 gp
\par 56\endash 58\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of psionic attack\tab 2,000 gp
\par 59\endash 60\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of psionic defense\tab 2,000 gp
\par 61\endash 62\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Psychokinesis\tab 2,000 gp
\par 63\endash 65\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Psychometabolism 2,000 gp
\par 66\endash 67\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Psychoportation\tab  2,000 gp
\par 68\endash 69\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionatrix of Telepathy\tab 2,000 gp
\par 70\endash 72\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Ring of stabilization\tab \tab 2,000 gp
\par 73\endash 74\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Ring of self\endash sufficiency\tab 2,000 gp
\par 75\endash 76\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Skin of nimbleness\tab \tab 2,000 gp
\par 77\endash 78\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, perceive\tab \tab 2,000 gp
\par 79\endash 81\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, concentrate\tab \tab 2,000 gp
\par 82\endash 83\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Amulet of Psychic Bastion\tab 2,000 gp
\par 84\endash 85\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal mask of mind armor\tab 4,000 gp
\par 86\endash 88\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, aware\tab \tab 4,000 gp
\par 89\endash 90\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, penetrate\tab \tab 4,000 gp
\par 91\endash 92\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Skin of the chameleon\tab \tab 4,500 gp
\par 93\endash 95\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (0-level)\tab 5,000 gp
\par 96\endash 97\tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionic restraints, average\tab 6,000 gp
\par 98\endash 100\tab \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab Eyes of powerleech\tab \tab 7,200 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 01\endash 05\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (1st level)\tab 10,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 06\endash 10\tab \tab \emdash \tab Torc of psionic might\tab \tab 10,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 11\endash 15\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (2nd level)\tab 10,400 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 16\endash 20\tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, assimilate\tab \tab 11,200 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 21\endash 25\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (3rd level)\tab 11,300 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 26\endash 30\tab \tab \emdash \tab Amulet of catapsi\tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 31\endash 35\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal mask of detection\tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 36\endash 40\tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionic restraints, greater\tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 41\endash 45\tab \tab \emdash \tab Mirror of suggestion\tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 46\endash 50\tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, expose\tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 51\endash 55\tab \tab \emdash \tab Third eye, open\tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 56\endash 60\tab \tab \emdash \tab Torc of free will\tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 61\endash 65\tab \tab \emdash \tab Torc of power\tab \tab \tab 12,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 66\endash 70\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (4th level)\tab 12,600 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 71\endash 75\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (5th level)\tab 14,300 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 76\endash 80\tab \tab \emdash \tab Skin of the claw\tab \tab 16,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 81\endash 85\tab \tab \emdash \tab Crystal anchor (6th level)\tab 16,400 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 86\endash 90\tab \tab \emdash \tab Skin of the spider\tab \tab 20,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 91\endash 95\tab \tab \emdash \tab Psionic restraints, damping\tab 24,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab 96\endash 100\tab \emdash \tab Skin of striking\tab \tab 24,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 01\endash 08\tab Skin of the defender\tab \tab 32,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 09\endash 15\tab Third eye, view\tab \tab 42,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 16\endash 24\tab Third eye, negate\tab \tab 44,600 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 25\endash 32\tab Crystal mask of fear\tab \tab 56,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 33\endash 41\tab Eyes of vampiric powerleech\tab 61,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 42\endash 49\tab Skin of the hero\tab \tab 68,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 50\endash 58\tab Skin of the psion\tab \tab 66,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 59\endash 66\tab Third eye, conceal\tab \tab 90,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 67\endash 75\tab Skin of proteus\tab \tab 90,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 76\endash 83\tab Skin of the troll\tab \tab 90,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 84\endash 92\tab Third eye, dominate\tab \tab 96,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 93\endash 98\tab Reverse capacitor\tab \tab 182,000 gp
\par \emdash \tab \tab \emdash \tab \tab 99\endash 100 Skin of iron\tab \tab \tab 240,000 gp
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Universal Item Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Amulet of Catapsi: This amulet aids the wearer against other psionic characters. Three times per day, t
he wearer can trigger the catapsi power, which blankets a 100-foot radius in telepathic noise for 10 minutes. Each time other psionic characters within this range attempt to manifest a psionic power, they must succeed at a Will save (DC 17) or pay double 
the normal power point cost.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, catapsi; Market Price: 12,000; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Amulet of Psychic Bastion: When worn, this amulet protects the wearer as the Psychic Bastion feat. The wearer gains mental hardness +1 against a foe\rquote 
s successful psionic attack. This bonus does not stack with that granted by Psychic Bastion, but either bonus alone stacks with mental hardness bonuses from psionic defense modes.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, Psychic Bastion; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Brain Lock Pearl: When hurled at a target, this tiny pearllike sphere bursts into a shower of yellow sparks. Treat this as a ranged touch attack. A target that is hit stands dazed as if by brai
n lock for 4 rounds. Brain lock pearls are grenadelike weapons, so a miss can potentially deal splash damage against all creatures within 5 feet, affecting them for 1 round. The burst destroys the item.
\par Manifester Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, brain lock; Market Price: 1,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Boots of Skating: These boots allow the wearer to slide along the ground at will as if using the skate power. This benefit counts as an enhancement bonus.
\par Manifester Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, skate; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par 
\par Boots of Stomping: These boots allow the wearer to use stomp as the power three times per day (Reflex save DC 12).
\par Manifester Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, stomp; Market Price: 1,200 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par 
\par Crawling Tattoos: These resemble standard psionic tattoos, but their effects are often offensive rather than beneficial. Like psionic tattoos, a crawling tattoo can be scribed only with
 powers of level 0 to 3 that target a creature or creatures. The exceptions are body adjustment powers, which can be scribed despite their effect being personal, and compulsion powers, which cannot be scribed at all. Powers that normally have an area, suc
h as whitefire, only affect one target if scribed in a crawling tattoo. Otherwise, crawling tattoos are treated in all ways as psionic tattoos (see \'93Psionic Tattoos\'94 above) until they are activated by the wearer. 
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 The wearer of a crawling tattoo can tap the
 tattoo as a standard action that draws an attack of opportunity, mentally specifying a target (to which the wearer must have line of sight). The designated target could be an object. Instead of triggering its stored power, this animates the tattoo, which
 drops to the floor and scuttles toward the target. The original wearer need no longer concentrate on the tattoo once animated.
\par }{The animated tattoo begins to move toward its designated target at the beginning of the original wearer\rquote s next round. Treat it as
 a Fine construct that has an AC of 18, 10 hit points, a hardness of 5, speed 30, and an attack bonus of +5. Crawling tattoos, unlike true constructs, are subject to illusions, darkness, fog, and similar effects. Should the target be killed, teleport away
, or otherwise absent itself before contact, the wearer can reclaim the tattoo. If destroyed, a crawling tattoo shatters and evaporates.
\par A crawling tattoo must enter the target\rquote s square to attack and thus draws an attack of opportunity as it passes through the target\rquote 
s threatened area. The tattoo makes melee touch attacks until it strikes its target or is destroyed. On a successful attack, the power scribed in the crawling tattoo automatically affects the target, even if a save is normally allowed. Crawling 
tattoos can ferry beneficial powers as well, and the target can allow the touch attack to succeed if it desires.
\par Stored Power Level\tab Market Price
\par 0\tab \tab \tab 50 gp
\par 1st\tab \tab \tab 100 gp
\par 2nd\tab \tab \tab 600 gp
\par 3rd\tab \tab \tab 1,400 gp
\par Manifester Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, power of the appropriate type and level; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Crystal Anchor: A crystal anchor ensnares the minds of those who manifest certain psionic powers within range. A crystal anchor can be configured to ward against powers of 6th level and lower. The triggering power is specified at the time of creation.

\par The user activates a crystal anchor by plunging the sharp head into the ground, leaving the shaft freestanding. It projects an invisible, 30-foot-radius field. If the specified power is manifested within thi
s range, the manifester must succeed at a Will save (DC 14 + power level) or be affected by brain lock for 10 rounds. Someone outside the area can still be ensnared by manifesting the specified power into or within it. A crystal anchor can only attempt to
 ensnare five victims per day. One crystal anchor can ensnare multiple targets simultaneously, and multiple crystal anchors can share overlapping fields.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 When a crystal anchor successfully ensnares a target, a slender filament of insubstantial ectoplasm con
nects the manifester to the shaft, even one outside the area, up to 300 feet away. (Beyond that distance, there is no filament, although the anchor does glow to indicate it is working.) This is only a visual display: Severing the filament does not dispel 
the effect. 
\par }{A crystal anchor has an AC of 7, 15 hit points, a hardness of 8, and a break DC of 20. 
\par Designated
\par Power\rquote s Level\tab \tab Market Price
\par \tab 0\tab \tab \~5,000 gp
\par \tab 1st\tab \tab 10,000 gp
\par \tab 2nd\tab \tab 10,400 gp
\par \tab 3rd\tab \tab 11,300 gp
\par \tab 4th\tab \tab 12,600 gp
\par \tab 5th\tab \tab 14,300 gp
\par \tab 6th\tab \tab 16,400 gp
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, brain lock, contingency, power to be designated; Weight: 3 lb.
\par 
\par Crystal Masks: Each of the various types of crystal mask fits over the face of any Medium-size or Small humanoid creature, with slits for eyes and nostrils. The mask is transparent, although it distorts the wearer\rquote 
s features. Small holes on the side admit leather straps for affixing the mask to the wearer\rquote s face.
\par Crystal masks confer special abilities or im\-proved skills on their wearers.
\par Crystal Mask of Detection: The wearer of a crystal mask of detection can make Search checks to detect traps as a rogue can. The mask grants no special bonus on the wearer\rquote s Search checks.
\par Manifester Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 1 level of rogue; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par Crystal Mask of Fear: The wearer of a crystal mask of fear can terrify other beings. The wearer need merely meet the gaze of a creature as a standard action. A target who fails a Will save (DC 16) panics, has a 50% chance to drop what it\rquote 
s holding, and flees away from you for 10 rounds. This is a mind-affecting, fear effect.
\par Manifester Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, emulate power; Market Price: 56,000 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par Crystal Mask of Knowledge: Each of the various crystal masks of knowledge grants the wearer a +5 competence bonus on a specific type of Knowledge check.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of a Knowledge skill of the appropriate type; Market Price: 500 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par Crystal Mask of Language: Each of the various crystal masks of language grants the wearer the ability to speak and write a specific language.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have the Speak Language skill of the appropriate type; Market Price: 500 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par Crystal Mask of Mindarmor: A crystal mask of mind\- armor grants the wearer a +4 enhancement bonus on saving throws against all compulsion effects while worn.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, conceal thoughts; Market Price: 4,000 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par 
\par Eyes of Powerleech: These crystal lenses fit over the user\rquote s eyes. The wearer is able to drain power points from psi
onic characters merely by meeting their gaze (at the rate of one target per round). The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 14) or lose 2d10 power points. The eyes of powerleech have no effect on nonpsionic targets or psionic beings who have exhausted 
their power points already (or manifest their powers freely). If the wearer has only one lens, the DC of the saving throw is reduced to 10. The wearer can attempt a powerleech attack up to three times per day.
\par Manifester Level: 11th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics; Market Price: 7,200 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Eyes of Vampiric Powerleech: These crystal lenses fit over the user\rquote s eyes, enabling him or her to drain power points from psionic characters merely by meeting their gaze (at the rate of on
e target per round). The target must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 18) or lose 2d10 power points, which the wearer instantly adds to his or her own power point reserve, even if these would bring him or her over his or her normal maximum. Power points
 in excess of the wearer\rquote 
s maximum fade after 24 hours. The eyes of vampiric powerleech have no effect on nonpsionic targets or psionic beings who have exhausted their power points already (or manifest their powers freely). If the wearer has only one lens, 
the DC of the saving throw is reduced to 10. The wearer can attempt a vampiric powerleech attack up to three times per day.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Manifester Level: 11th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics, psychic vampire; Market Price: 61,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par }{
\par Gloves of Object Reading: While wearing these gloves, the user can learn the details of an inanimate object\rquote s previous owner, as if manifesting the object reading power.
\par Manifester Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, object reading; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Mirror of Suggestion: This small hand mirror manifests its power against those who see their reflections within it, as a gaze attack with a range of 30 feet. Potential victims can attempt to avert their eyes or look away as they w
ould from a normal gaze attack. A creature meeting its own gaze in the mirror must succeed at a Will save (DC 13) or be affected by a suggestion chosen by the mirror\rquote 
s wielder. Because the mirror is small, only a single creature can meet its own gaze each round. The wielder of the mirror is not affected by seeing herself.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, suggestion; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: 1/2 lb.
\par 
\par Powerleech Pearl: When hurled at a psionic character, this tiny pearllike sphere bursts into a shower of rainbow-colored sparks. Treat this as a ranged touch attack. A target who is hit loses 2d4 power points (psionic creatures, which manifest freely, are
 not affected). Powerleech pearls are grenadelike weapons, so a miss can potentially deal splash damage, draining 1 power point from psionic characters within 5 feet. The burst destroys the item.
\par Manifester Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics; Market Price: 1,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Psionatrices: Each of these multifaceted crystals is worn as an amulet. Any psionatrix adds an enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll to set the save DC when using psionic powers or attack/defense modes, in addition to the other standard modifiers.

\par Psionatrix of Clairsentience: A psionatrix of Clairsentience adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Clairsentience power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be a seer; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Metacreativity: A psionatrix of Metacreativity adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Metacreativity power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be a shaper; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Psionic Attack: A psionatrix of psionic attack adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a specified psionic attack mode. 
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, any psionic attack mode; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Psionic Defense: A psionatrix of psionic defense adds a +1 en\-hancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s Will save using a specified psionic defense mode. 
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, any psionic defense mode; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Psychometabolism: A psionatrix of Psychometabolism adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Psychometabolism power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be an egoist; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Psychoportation: A psionatrix of Psychoportation adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Psychoportation power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be a nomad; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Psychokinesis: A psionatrix of Psychokinesis adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Psychokinesis power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be a savant; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Psionatrix of Telepathy: A psionatrix of Telepathy adds a +1 enhancement bonus on the wearer\rquote s roll when using a Telepathy power.
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must be a telepath; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Psionic Restraints: Each of the various psionic restraints is an iron cuff that locks around the wrist (DC 2
7 for Open Lock checks). The cuff limits the total number of power points a psionic character wearing it can use in a round (regardless of total power point reserve), or completely damps the ability to use psionics. Damping psionic restraints even inhibit
 free manifestation, so they also affect psionic creatures, which are unaffected by the other types of restraints.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\tab Allowed Power
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Restraints Type\tab Points/Round\tab Market Price
\par Lesser\tab \tab \tab 5 or fewer\tab 1,000 gp
\par Average\tab \tab 3 or fewer\tab 6,000 gp
\par Greater\tab \tab \tab 1 or fewer\tab 12,000 gp
\par Damping\tab \tab 0\tab \tab 24,000 gp
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics; Weight: 1 lb.
\par 
\par Psychoactive Skins: Psychoactive skins are fist-sized globs of psionically charged ectoplasm. As
 a standard action, a skin spreads over and covers a Medium-size or smaller creature who projects the proper command thought; the same command thought causes the skin to shrink back down to its former size. Each of the various psychoactive skins is charge
d with one of a wide array of powers that constantly affect the wearer.
\par A deployed skin completely covers the wearer (but not bulky equipment such as armor, backpacks, and other large items) like a second skin, allowing the wearer to see, hear, and breathe 
normally. It rolls away from various parts of the body as needed. Up to three skins can be worn simultaneously, although only the outermost is active in any given round (hidden skins cannot manifest their powers). Skin layers can be changed with a command
 thought as a standard action, which causes the current skin to \'93boil away\'94 and reveal a lower-layer skin.
\par Skin of the Chameleon: This psychoactive skin adjusts to surrounding textures and colors, continually granting the wearer a +15 circumstance bonus on Hide checks (assuming he or she doffs heavy armor and bulky equipment).
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, chameleon; Market Price: 4,500 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Claw: This psychoactive skin grows massive, sickle-shaped claws over the wearer\rquote s fingertips. With claws extended, the wearer\rquote s un\-armed \- \line at\-tacks deal a base damage of 1d12 (and do not draw attacks of \- opportunity).

\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, claws of the bear; Market Price: 16,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Defender: This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +4 natural armor bonus.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, natural armor; Market Price: 32,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Hero: This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +3 luck bonus to AC, a +3 luck bonus on all saving throws, and a +3 luck bonus on attack rolls.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, fate of one; Market Price: 68,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of Iron: This psychoactive skin continually affects the wearer as the iron body power.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, iron body; Market Price: 240,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of Nimbleness: This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Tumble checks. 
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Tumble skill; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of Proteus: This psychoactive skin continually affects the wearer as the metamorphosis power. While in a form other than his or her natural form, the wearer does not appear to be wearing the skin.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, metamorphosis; Market Price: 90,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Psion: This psychoactive skin grants the wearer 7 bonus power points per day and a power resistance of 18.
\par Manifester Level: 16th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, psychic chirurgery; Market Price: 66,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Spider: This psychoactive skin continually grants the wearer a +20 competence bonus on Climb checks and continually affects the wearer as the body equilibrium power. 
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Climb skill, body equilibrium; Market Price: 20,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of Striking: This psychoactive skin answers the first attack made against the wearer each round with an automatically manifested and targeted \'93ectoburst\'94 against the attacker. The burst ejects from the skin on the wearer\rquote 
s turn, making a ranged touch attack using the wearer\rquote s base ranged attack bonus (range increment 10). If hit, the target takes 3d4 points of fire damage as the ectoburst flames and is consumed. 
This attack does not in any way hinder the wearer, count against his or her total actions for the round, or draw an attack of opportunity.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, burning ray, hustle; Market Price: 24,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par Skin of the Troll: This psychoactive skin continually allows a living wearer to heal 1 point of damage per level every hour rather than every day. (This ability cannot be aided by the Heal skill.) Subdual damage heals at a rate of 1 point per level ever
y 5 minutes. If the wear\-er loses a limb, an organ, or any other body part while wearing this skin, the skin regenerates it. In either case, only damage taken while wearing this skin outermost is regenerated.
\par Manifester Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, true metabolism; Market Price: 90,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par 
\par Reverse Capacitor: A reverse capacitor doesn\rquote t store power points\emdash it drains them, to the surprise and chagrin of a psionic character taken in by its resemblance to a crystal capacitor. 
Powers that identify psionic items will incorrectly identify a reverse capacitor as a crystal capacitor 50% of the time.
\par A psionic character attempting to use the power points supposedly stored in a reverse capacitor must succeed at a Will save (DC 20) or 
lose 3d6 power points. If this drains more power points than the psionic character possesses, he or she takes the balance in temporary Charisma damage on a point-for-point basis. If this Charisma damage is greater than his or her Charisma score, he or she
 takes the balance as temporary Constitution damage.
\par }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 Manifester Level: 16th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, Disarm Mind, contingency; Market Price: 182,000 gp; Weight: 1 lb.
\par }{
\par Ring of Stabilization: This crystalline ring continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Stabilize Self checks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Stabilize Self skill; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Ring of Self-Sufficiency: This crystalline ring continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Autohypnosis checks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Autohypnosis skill; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Shards: These are tiny fragments of castoff crystal imprinted with miniscule bits of psionic power. Using a shard requires grasping it and projecting a command thought as a standard action (most shards telepathically wh
isper their command word into the minds of living creatures who handle them). A shard always grants a temporary competence bonus to one specific skill, ranging from +1 to +10 inclusive. This bonus lasts until the skill is used or 10 rounds pass, whichever
 comes first. Once activated, a shard disintegrates, even if its bonus is not used.
\par \tab Competence Bonus\tab Market Price
\par \tab +1\tab \tab \tab 20 gp
\par  \tab +2\tab \tab \tab 30 gp
\par \tab +3\tab \tab \tab 40 gp
\par \tab +4\tab \tab \tab 60 gp
\par \tab +5\tab \tab \tab 100 gp
\par  \tab +6\tab \tab \tab 140 gp
\par \tab +7\tab \tab \tab 200 gp
\par \tab +8\tab \tab \tab 250 gp
\par \tab +9\tab \tab \tab 320 gp
\par \tab +10\tab \tab \tab 400 gp
\par Manifester Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have ranks of the specified skill totaling half the encoded bonus (minimum 1 rank); Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Third Eyes: These appear as small crystals, always with at least one wide, flat facet, and contain a variety of powers. With the proper command thought, the crystal self-adheres to the center of the wearer\rquote 
s forehead (the same command thought causes the third eye to disengage). Only one third eye can be worn at a time. 
\par Assimilate: While worn, a third eye assimilate allows the wearer to borrow one power from a psionic target\rquote 
s repertoire once per day. This is a ranged touch attack with a ray streaming from the third eye (range 100 feet), and the wearer can make as many attacks each day as needed until on
e succeeds. On a successful attack, the wearer becomes aware of the victim\rquote 
s psionic repertoire, chooses one power from among those and instantly gains it, while the victim loses it. Once the power has been assimilated, the wearer can manifest it normally 
if he or she is of sufficient level to use it. If he or she assimilates a power from a creature that freely manifests it, the wearer must still pay the appropriate number of power points to manifest that power. The wearer retains the power for 24 hours, a
t which time he or she loses knowledge of the power and the former owner regains it, regardless of the separation between them. If the former owner is dead, the wearer still loses the assimilated power.
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, forced mindlink; Market Price: 11,200 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Aware: This }{\expnd9\expndtw45 third eye}{ continually grants the }{\expnd2\expndtw10 wearer a +10 compe}{\expnd1\expndtw5 tence bonus on Spot and }{Search checks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Spot and Search skills; Market Price: 4,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Conceal: While worn, a third eye conceal hides the wearer from all powers that attempt to view, locate, or otherwise detect the wearer, except for the Clairsentience power metafaculty. But even metafaculty reveals only the name of the location\emdash 
not an image, nor any other information regarding the wearer.
\par Manifester Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, sequester; Market Price: 90,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Concentrate: This third eye contin\-ually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Con\-centration checks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Concentration skill; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Dominate: The wearer of this third
 eye can see over virtually any distance or into other planes of existence, as with the power remote viewing, and can send and receive silent mental messages to and from the person viewed. Once per day the wearer may attempt to use lesser domination on th
e person viewed (Will save DC 15).
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, lesser domination, remote viewing; Market Price: 96,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Expose: The wearer of this third eye always knows when someone lies directly to him or her.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, Psychic Inquisitor; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Negate: While worn, a third eye negate allows the wearer to suppress the powers of psionic items three times per day. This is a ranged touc
h attack with a grainy blue ray that springs from the third eye (range 100 feet). On a successful attack, the ray suppresses any currently active function of the target item and has a 75% chance to suppress any other power from that item, regardless of th
e level or strength of the power, for 2d4 rounds. To negate instantaneous effects, the wearer needs to use a ready action. The target item gets no saving throw and cannot resist this effect. The third eye negate cannot affect artifacts (even minor ones).

\par Caster Level: 16th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, emulate power, negate psionics; Market Price: 44,600 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Open: The wearer of this third eye can freely manifest clairaudience/clairvoyance at will.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, clairaudience/clairvoyance; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Penetrate: While worn, a third eye penetrate grants the wearer a +2 bonus on manifester level checks to beat a creature\rquote s power resistance. This stacks with other applicable bonuses.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, Power Penetration; Market Price: 4,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par Perceive: This third eye continually grants the wearer a +10 competence bonus on Sense Motive checks.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, creator must have 5 ranks of the Sense Motive skill; Market Price: 2,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par View: The wearer of this third eye can see over virtually any distance or into other planes of existence, as with the power remote viewing.
\par Manifester Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, remote viewing; Market Price: 42,000 gp; Weight: \emdash .
\par 
\par Torc of Free Will: This is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer is not affected by the brain lock power or items that produce brain lock effects.
\par Manifester Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par 
\par Torc of Power: This is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer is not affected by powerleech effects.
\par Manifester Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, negate psionics; Market Price: 12,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par 
\par Torc of Psionic Might: This is a band inlaid with precious metal, worn around the neck or upper arm. The wearer manifests all powers by paying power points equal to the standard cost \endash 
1 (minimum of 1). This does not change the cost of 0-level and 1st-level powers. Psionic creatures that freely manifest their powers gain no benefit from the torc of psionic might, nor do nonpsionic creatures.
\par Manifester Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Universal Item, emulate power; Market Price: 10,000 gp; Weight: 2 lb.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Cursed Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Exhausting: The item resembles a normal psionic item with free activation, b
ut it instead drains the user of power points whenever he or she activates its ability. 
\par 
\par Backfire: The imbedded psionic effect targets the user instead of its intended target. 
\par 
\par Subversive: The item appears identical to one that would normally grant mental hardness, but when used actually makes the wearer more vulnerable to psionic attack. (Mental hardness can\rquote t be reduced below 0.)
\par Some cursed psionic items may require a power point expenditure to remove, or to be rendered inactive by matter manipulation.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Minor artifacts are not necessarily unique items, Instead, they are psionic items that no longer can be made, at least by common mortal means.
\par 
\par Sutra of Tranquil Thought: This monastic tome describes ancient techniques of mental focus and is highly prized by psionic practitioners. Study of the work requires one week of solitary contemplation, but upon completion, the psionic character gains 17 a
dditional power points and experience points sufficient to place him or her halfway to the into the next level of experience. Nonpsionic beings cannot benefit from its secrets, and those who use their powers for evil are punished for their impertinence, l
osing 5d6x1,000 XP for defiling the book. They also run the risk of insanity: The reader must make an immediate Will save (DC 15) or become permanently insane as the power. Only psychic chirurgery or similarly extreme measures can restore sanity.
\par To anyone without psionic aptitude, the book\rquote 
s pages appear to contain nothing but elaborate patterns and drawings of mysterious beings. Once read, the book vanishes into the Astral Plane to an unknown destination. Even if it is found again, the same character canno
t benefit twice from perusing its contents.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Artifacts
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major artifacts are unique items\emdash 
only one of each exists. They are difficult to find and dangerous to handle, but once found, are often even more difficult to destroy. A major psionic artifact should have only a single, specific means of destruction.
\par 
\par Annulus: The Annulus is a 1-foot-diameter ring of silvery material. 
\par Powers: The Annulus has several powers, all of which require a wielder to tightly grasp the ring with at least one hand. When it is first grasped, knowledge of the artifact\rquote s powers immediately flood the wielder\rquote s mind.
\par The Annulus generates a continuous catapsi effect within a 100-foot radius of the wielder (who is unaffected). The wielder gains a +4 enhancement bonus to mental hardness.
\par Once per day, the wielder can trigger ultrablast as a standard action.
\par Three times per day, as a standard action, the wielder can trigger an effect similar to dimensional anchor that affects all creatures in a 50-foot radius.
\par The prime power of the A
nnulus, however, is psionic nullification. Once per year, the wielder can trigger this effect as a special action requiring 10 rounds to complete. The wielder specifies a target or targets within a 100-foot radius, from a specific psionic individual or it
e
m to a group of psionic beings that share the same philosophy. The nullification effect follows 10 full rounds of concentrating on the target and is accompanied by blasts of light, heat, and sound from the Annulus. Nonpsionic creatures and items are unaff
ected, as are nontargeted beings, but the target\emdash regardless of any protection it may possess\emdash disintegrates with a terrific explosion. Nothing is left but floating dust.
\par It is relatively easy to nullify a single target or a small group of targets, but a more
 powerful being (such as a demigod or greater entity) or another major artifact taxes the Annulus to its limits. If used to nullify such a target, the artifact succeeds but is destroyed in the process and cannot be retrieved by any means.
\par Destruction: The Annulus must be used to nullify a demigod or more powerful being, or another major artifact, as described above.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Creating Psionic Items
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Several feats grant psionic characters the ability to create psionic items. They have everything needed to recreate any
 of the items described here or create completely new items.
\par To calculate the costs involved in creating a psionic item, refer to Creating Magic Items. Although that information deals with magic items, the price formulas presented there are identical to th
ose for psionic items. While the required psionic character level can be higher than a spellcaster\rquote 
s level to manifest an equivalent power, anyone serious about making psionic items has probably taken the Metacreative feat. This ensures that the average ps
ionic item of a given power level has about the same market value as a magic item of the same power level.
\par }{\caps 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Special Materials
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {In addition to psionic items with imbedded powers, some substances have innate special properties.
\par Ferroplasm: Mined from secret locations in the Astral Plane, this malleable metal holds its shape only in the hands of a psionic being. When an item forged with ferroplasm is unattended or held by a nonpsionic creature, it melts and temporarily loses all 
special powers. But when wielded by a psionic creature, such an item immediately springs back into its true shape and regains all abilities. In its proper form, a ferroplasm item glows with a violet light (illuminating a 10-foot-radius), unless the item
\rquote s owner mentally quenches it. In an area where psionic powers do not function, it collapses as if in the hands of a nonpsionic creature.
\par Ferroplasm adds to the quality of a weapon or suit of armor based on how much of the material is used. Weapons fashioned f
rom ferroplasm have a natural enhancement bonus to attack and damage. Armor fashioned from ferroplasm has a natural enhancement bonus to AC. These bonuses do not stack with other enhancement bonuses. Weapons or armor fashioned from ferroplasm are treated 
as masterwork items with regard to creation times, but the masterwork quality does not affect the enhancement bonus of weapons or the armor check penalty of armor.
\par Ferroplasm has hardness 20 and 40 hit points per inch of thickness when in its true form, and a hardness of 5 and 10 hit points per inch of thickness when soft.
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Enhancement\tab \tab Market Price
\par Item\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab Modifier
\par Light armor\tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab \tab \tab +1,500 gp
\par Medium armor\tab \tab \tab +2\tab \tab \tab +4,000 gp
\par Heavy armor\tab \tab \tab \tab +3\tab \tab \tab +8,000 gp
\par Shield\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab \tab \tab +1,500 gp
\par Weapon damage 1d4 or 1d6\tab \tab +1\tab \tab \tab +2,500 gp
\par Weapon damage 1d8, 1d10, or 1d12 \tab +2\tab \tab \tab +7,500 gp
\par }}