{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff5\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f72\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f73\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f75\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}
{\f76\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f79\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext15 Skil/Rank/Abil/Etc. Tab;}{\s16\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon18 \snext16 Skill/Rank/Ability Tabs;}{\s17\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext17 Table Shaded Line;}{
\s18\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext18 Table Body;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 Table Title;}{\s20\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon27 \snext20 
Legal Page Text;}{\s21\qj \li0\ri0\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 Sidebar Body;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext22 Running Head-LEFT;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext23 
H3;}{\s24\qr \li0\ri0\sb400\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon27 \snext24 H2;}{\s25\qr \li0\ri0\sl-400\slmult0
\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext25 H1;}{\s26\qc \li0\ri0\sl-480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext26 
FOLIO;}{\s27\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext27 Core Body;}{\s28\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext28 CHAPTER NUMBER;}{\s29\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext29 CHAPTER NAME;}}{\info
{\title  T11835_620_PsiHdbkCh3.qxd}{\author Andrew Smith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy22\hr12\min20}{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy31\hr17\min18}{\version116}{\edmins70}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords5253}{\nofchars29946}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\ulnone This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{\f0 
\par PSIONIC FEATS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisites
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Some feats have prerequisites. A character must have the specified ability score, feat, skill, or base attack bonus in order to select or use that feat. A character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or she gains the prerequisite. 
\par A character can\rquote t use a feat if he or she has lost a prerequisite. 
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Types of Feats
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Four types of feats are presented here: general, psionic, metapsionic, and item creation feats.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 General Feats
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Any class can take a general feat.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Feats
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 To nonpsionic characters,
 all psionic feats are treated as special (only psionic characters and creatures may take them). Psionic feats allow the psionic character to enhance combat, augment psionic powers, and manipulate psionic attack and defense modes.
\par Some psionic feats do not directly use the power points of a psionic character, but the mere presence of those power points and psionic potential allow psionic characters access to these feats. Feats that have a prerequisite of \'93
reserve power points [some number+]\'94 require the psi
onic character or creature to possess a number of unused power points equal to or greater than the given number to use the feat in any given round. These power points are not used to power the feat; however, if they are not held in reserve the feat is tem
porarily unavailable. 
\par Note: If a psionic character\rquote s total power point maximum never equals the reserve power point prerequisite, the character cannot take the feat.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Metapsionic Feats
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Metapsionic feats allow a psionic character to enhance the manifestation of a regular power. Using a metapsionic feat doesn
\rquote t take any longer but does increase the total power point cost to manifest the power.
\par A psionic character can use multiple metapsionic feats on a power, and the extra power point cost is cumulative, but a power altered by metapsionic feats can never cost more power points than the manifester\rquote s level minus one (minimum one).
\par With the proper item creation feat, a character can store a power enhanced by a metapsionic feat in a power stone, psionic tattoo, or dorje, but the level limits for psionic tattoos, power stones, and dorjes apply to the power\rquote 
s higher, metapsionic level. The metapsionic level increases by 1 for every 2 points a metapsionic feat increases a power\rquote s cost.
\par Important: Metapsionic feats cannot be used to augment psionic attack and defense modes. The feats that allow direct manipulation of psionic attack and defense mode powers are specifically noted with the given feat.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Item Creation Feats
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic characters can use their personal power to create lasting psionic items.
\par An item creation feat lets a psionic character create a psionic item of a certain type. Regardless of the type of item, each item creation feat has certain features in common.
\par XP Cost: Power and energy that the psionic character
 would normally have is expended when making a psionic item. The XP cost normally equals 1/25 the cost of the item in gp. A psionic character cannot spend so much XP that he or she loses a level. However, he or she can, on gaining enough XP to achieve a n
ew level, immediately expend XP on creating an item rather than keeping the XP to advance a level.
\par Raw Materials Cost: Creating a psionic item requires costly components, most of which are consumed in the process. The cost of these materials normally equals half the cost of the item.
\par Using an item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory or psionic workshop, special tools, and so on. A psionic character generally has access to what he or she needs unless unusual circumstances apply.
\par Time: The time to create a psionic item depends on the feat and the cost of the item. The minimum time is one day.
\par Item Cost: Craft Dorje, Encode Stone, and Scribe Tattoo create items that directly reproduce power effects and whose strength depends on manifester level. A
 power from one of these items has the strength it would have if manifested by a psionic character of that level. The base price of these items (and thus the base XP cost and the base cost of the raw materials) depends on the manifester level and the powe
r level imprinted into the item. The manifester level must be high enough that the psionic character creating the item can manifest the power at that level. To find the final price in each case, multiply the manifester level by the power\rquote 
s level and then multiply that figure by a cost in gold pieces noted in each specific feat.
\par Extra Costs: Any dorje, power stone, or psionic tattoo that store
s a power with a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. For psionic tattoos and power stones, the psionic character must pay the XP cost when creating the item. For a dorje, the psionic character must pay fifty times the
 XP cost.
\par Some psionic items similarly incur extra costs in material components or XP as noted in their descriptions.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Feat Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This is the format for feat descriptions.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Feat Name [Type of Feat]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Description of what the feat does or represents in plain language.
\par Prerequisite: A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a minimum base attack bonus, a skill, a base number of power points, or a level that a character must have in order to acquire this feat. This entry is absent if a feat has no pre
requisite. A feat may have more than one prerequisite.
\par Benefit: What the feat enables the character to do.
\par Normal: What a character who does not have this feat is limited to or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular drawback, this entry is absent.
\par Special: Any special rules concerning the feat, such as rules for taking the feat multiple times (normally not allowed).
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Body Fuel [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Inner Strength, Talented.
\par Benefit: The character can \'93burn\'94 ability points as po
wer points on the basis of 1 power point per 2 ability score points burned. Burning ability points for power points is a free action: A character could burn more than 2 ability score points to gain several power points per free action. Treat reduced abili
ty scores as temporary ability damage.  The character can burn no more than 60 ability points in a day, regardless of any ability healing he or she may receive.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Combat Manifestation [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: The character gets a +4 bonus on Concentration checks made to manifest a power while on the defensive.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Craft Crystal Capacitor [ItemCreation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 9th+.
\par Benefit: The character can create a crystal capacitor that stores a number of power points equal to or less than his or her base power points for his or her highest manifester level. The nature of power point storage, at least in conjunction with this f
eat, allows a maximum of 17 power points to be stored in a single crystal capacitor. Moreover, a crystal capacitor\rquote 
s maximum is always an odd number. Note that during use, a crystal capacitor very often contains even numbers of power points, just not when fully charged.
\par Crafting a crystal capacitor takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a crystal capacitor is equal to the highest-level power it could manifest using all its stored power points, squared, multiplied by 1,000 gp. T
o encode a crystal capacitor, a character must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half this base price.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Craft Dorje [Item Creation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 5th+.
\par Benefit: The character can create a dorje of any psi
onic power of 9th level or lower that he or she knows (or can gain access to). Crafting a dorje takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a dorje is its manifester level x the power level x 750 gp (treat 0-level powers as one-ha
lf level). To craft a dorje, a character must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this base price.
\par A newly created dorje has enough power points to manifest its primary power fifty times.
\par Any dorje that stores powers with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the cost derived from the base cost, the character must pay fifty times the XP cost.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Craft Psionic Arms and Armor [ItemCreation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 5th+.
\par Benefit: The character can create any psionic weapon, armor, or shield whose prerequisites he or she meets. Enhancing a weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes one day for each 1,000 gp in the price of its psionic features. To enhance a weapon, suit of
 armor, or shield, the character must spend 1/25 of its features\rquote  total price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this total price. 
\par A character can also mend a broken psionic weapon, suit of armor, or shield if it is one that he or she could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to empower that item in the first place.
\par The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a masterwork item that the character must provide. (Its cost is not included in the above cost.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Craft Universal Item [Item Creation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 3rd+.
\par Benefit: The character can create any miscellaneous psionic item whose prerequisites he or she meets. Crafting a miscellaneous psionic item takes one day for e
ach 1,000 gp in its price. To empower a miscellaneous psionic item, the psionic character must spend 1/25 of the item\rquote s price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this price. 
\par A characrer can also mend a broken universal item if it is one that he or she could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to empower that item in the first place.
\par Some universal items incur extra costs in materials components or XP as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from the item\rquote s base price. The character must pay such a cost to create an item or mend a broken one.

\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Deep Impact [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, Power Attack, Psionic Weapon, base attack bonus +3 or more.
\par Benefit: If the character pays 5 power points per strike, he or she can resolve his or her melee attack with a weapon as a touch attack for purposes of assessing the foe\rquote 
s Armor Class. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the melee attack. The weapon remains \'93charged\'94 for a maximum number of rounds equal to the character\rquote 
s Strength modifier +1, or until the character makes his or her next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Delay Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: A delayed power doesn\rquote 
t activate until 1 to 5 rounds after the character finishes manifesting it. The character determines the delay when manifesting the power, and it cannot be changed once set. The power activates just before the character\rquote 
s turn on the round designated. Only area, personal, and touch powers may be affected by this feat. Any decisions the character would make about the power (including attack rolls, designating targets, or determining or shaping an area) a
re decided when the power is manifested, while any effects resolved by those affected by the power (including saving throws) are decided when the power triggers. A delayed power may be negated normally during the delay, and can be detected normally in the
 area or on the target with powers that can detect psionic effects. A delayed power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +6.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Disarm Mind [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Cha 13+, Mental Adversary.
\par Benefit: The character depletes a number of power points equal to his or her Charisma modifier x4 from his or her opponent on any psionic attack that deals 1 or more ability damage, after accounting for the opponent\rquote 
s mental hardness. To use this feat, the character must pay power points equal to the c
ost of the psionic attack +3. The character decides whether or not to pay the extra cost after discovering the failure or success of the psionic attack to deal ability damage.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Encode Stone [ItemCreation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 1st+.
\par Benefit: The c
haracter can create a power stone of any power that he or she knows. Encoding a power stone takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. The base price of a power stone is the level of the stored psionic power x its manifester level x 25 gp (treat a
 0-level power as one-half level). To encode a power stone, a character must spend 1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this base price.
\par Any power stone that stores a psionic power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, the character must pay the XP when encoding the stone.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Enlarge Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: An enlarged power has its range doubled. Powers whose ranges are not defined by distance do not have their ranges increased. Determine an enlarged power\rquote 
s area or effect as if the character were two manifester levels higher than he or she actually is. An enlarged power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Extend Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: An extended power lasts twice as long as normal. Powers with a concentration, instantaneous, or permanent duration are not extended. An extended power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Fell Shot [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Dex 13+, Point Blank Shot, Psionic Shot, base attack bonus +3 or more.
\par Benefit: If the character pays 5 power points per shot, he or she can resolve his or her ranged attack as a touch attack for purposes of assessing the foe\rquote 
s Armor Class. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the ranged attack. The character\rquote s bullet, bolt, or arrow remains \'93charged\'94 for a ma
ximum number of rounds equal to his or her Dexterity modifier +1, or until the character makes his or her next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Great Sunder [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, Power Attack, Sunder, reserve power points 5+.
\par Benefit: When the character strikes at an opponent\rquote s weapon, he or she ignores half of the weapon\rquote s total hardness (round down). \'93Total hardness\'94 includes any magical or psionic enhancements possessed by the weapon
 that normally add to its hardness. However, to strike and do any damage to a magically or psionically enhanced weapon, the character still needs a weapon of equal or better enhancement.
\par Special: A character can also sense the stress points in any hard construction, such as wooden doors or stone walls, and can ignore half of the object\rquote s total hardness (round down) when attacking that object.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Greater Power Penetration [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Power Penetration.
\par Benefit: The character gets a +4 bonus on manifester level checks (1d20 + manifester level) to beat a creature\rquote s power resistance. This bonus overlaps (does not stack with) the bonus from Power Penetration.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Greater Psionic Focus [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Psionic Focus.
\par Benefit: Add +4 to the DC for all saving throws against powers from within the character\rquote 
s discipline if the character has already taken the Psionic Focus feat for the selected discipline. This bonus overlaps (does not stack with) the bonus from Psionic Focus.
\par Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time a character takes this feat, it applies to a new discipline, but a psion must choose his or her primary discipline the first time he or she takes this feat.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Heighten Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benef
it: A heightened power has a higher psionic power level than normal (up to 9th level). Unlike other metapsionic feats, Heighten Power actually increases the effective level of the power that it modifies. All effects dependent on power level (such as savin
g throw DCs and ability to penetrate a minor dead psionics zone or a minor globe of invulnerability) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened power costs as many power points as a power of its effective level.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Hide Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: A psionic power can be manifested without one associated display characteristic chosen by the character when he or she takes the feat: auditory, mater
ial, mental, olfactory, or visual. The hidden power costs a number of power points equal to the standard cost +2.
\par Special: A character can take this feat multiple times, each time choosing a different display characteristic to hide while manifesting a given power.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Improved Psicrystal [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: The character can implant another personality fragment in his or her psicrystal. The character gains the benefits listed for both psicrystal types. The psicrystal\rquote s personality adjusts and becomes a blend be
tween all implanted personality fragments.
\par Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time, he or she implants a new personality fragment in the psicrystal, from which the character derives the noted benefits.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Inertial Armor [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Reserve power points 1+.
\par Benefit: While the character retains 1 or more power points, his or her mind automatically generates a tangible field of force that provides a +4 armor bonus to AC. Unlike mundane armor, Inertial Armor entails no armor 
check penalty or speed reduction. Because inertial armor is composed of psychokinetic force, incorporeal creatures can\rquote t bypass it the way they do normal armor. The inertial armor can be invisible or appear as a colored glow, at the character
\rquote s option. The armor bonus provided by Inertial Armor does not stack with the armor bonus provided by a shield or regular armor.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Inner Strength [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: The character gains +1 power points.
\par Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times, each time gaining a number of power points equal to the previous Inner Strength gain +1. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Master Dorje [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: The character can manifest a power stored in a dorje without expending a charge. Instead, the character pays for the imbedded power from his o
r her own power point reserve by spending a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2. When all the charges of a dorje are exhausted, the dorje becomes inert; thus, this feat no longer affects that individual dorje.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Maximize Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of a maximized power are maximized. Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected. Powers without random variables are not affected. The maximized power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +6
.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Mental Adversary [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Cha 13+.
\par Benefit: The character deals +1 ability damage on a successful psionic attack when he or she pays the cost of the psionic attack +3 power points. The character decides whether or not to pay the extra cos
t after determining the failure or success of the psionic attack to breach the defender\rquote s Will save.
\par Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times, each time gaining the potential to deal bonus damage equal to the previous damage bonus +1, but at 
a cost equal to the previous cost plus 8 power points. The character decides what increment of bonus damage to deal within the range granted by gaining this feat multiple times.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Mental Leap [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, 6 ranks of the Jump skill, reserve power points 3+.
\par Benefit: The character jumps twice as far or as high as is indicated on his or her Jump check. The character\rquote s maximum jump (a function of his or her height) is twice normal, and extra distance jumped (above and beyond the normal distan
ce rolled) is not counted against the character\rquote s total allowed movement in the round.
\par Special: A character can take this feat multiple times. Each time increases his or her jump multiple by one and increases the prerequisite of reserve power points by +8. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Metacreative [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Any item creation feat.
\par Benefit: The character can create psionic items (including psionic armors and weapons, psionic tattoos, dorjes, power stones, and universal items) as if his or her effective manifester level were one less than his or her actual level (minimum 1st level).
  The character must still be of high enough level to manifest the power in question.  The chatacter can choose to use or not use this feat on each new psionic item he or she creates.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Mind Trap [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Psychic Bastion.
\par Benefit: The character depletes a number of power 
points equal to 10 + his or her Charisma modifier from the attacking opponent on any psionic attack that deals 1 or more ability damage to the character. Against freely manifested attack modes, Mind Trap deals back ability score damage equal in type and a
mount to that dealt the character, plus an additional 2 points. The opponent cannot raise defense modes against this damage.  
To do so, the character must pay power points equal to the cost of the psionic defense +3. The character decides whether or not to pay the extra cost after discovering the failure or success of the opponent\rquote s psionic attack to deal ability damage.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Persistent Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Extend Power.
\par Benefit: A persistent power has a duration of 24 hours. The persistent power must have a personal range or a fixed range; a character can\rquote 
t use this feat on a power with a variable range, or on a power with an instantaneous duration. Note that the character must concentrate on some powers to use their effects; concentration on such a power is a standard action
 that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. A persistent power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Power Penetration [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on manifester level checks (1d20 + manifester level) to beat a creature\rquote 
s power resistance.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Power Touch [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, Psionic Fist.
\par Benefit: The character can make attacks of opportunity using any power he or she knows with a range of touch, if he or she has at least one hand free. The Power T
ouch attack of opportunity does not preclude the normal manifestation of a psionic power during the same round. The power used in conjunction with this feat costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2.
\par Normal: Attacks of opportunity do not involve casting spells or manifesting powers.
\par Special: Possession of the Quicken Power feat reduces the extra cost of Power Touch to 0 power points (the character still must pay the standard cost for the power used in the attack of opportunity).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Body [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: At 1st level, the character may use his or her key ability modifier determined by his or her primary discipline, if a psion, instead of his or her Constitution modifier to determine bonus hit points. At higher levels, the character\rquote 
s bonus hit points are determined by his or her Constitution, as normal. However, the character now gains +1 hit point every time he or she learns a metapsionic feat.
\par }{\f0\expnd2\expndtw10 Special: A character may only take this feat as a 1st-level character.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Charge [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Wis 13+, Speed of Thought, reserve power points 3+.
\par Benefit: When taking a charge action in combat, }{\f0\expnd1\expndtw5 the character can make a }{\f0 num\-ber of turns, }{\f0\expnd1\expndtw5 each of not more than 90 degrees, }{\f0 equal to his or her Dexter}{\f0\expnd1\expndtw5 ity modifier. The }{\f0 
action still counts as a charge.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Dodge [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Dex 13+, Dodge, reserve power points 5+.
\par Benefit: During the character\rquote s action, he or she designates an opponent and receive a +1 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks from that 
opponent. This can be the same opponent designated for the standard Dodge feat, or a separate opponent. If the same opponent is chosen for both Dodge and Psionic Dodge, the bonuses stack. The character can select a new opponent on any action. Note: A cond
ition that makes the character lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) does not make the character lose the dodge bonus from the Psionic Dodge feat. Also, dodge bonuses stack with one another, unlike most other types of bonuses. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Fist [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+.
\par Benefit: The character\rquote s unarmed strikes deal +1d4 points of bludgeoning damage when he or she pays the cost of 1 power point. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the melee attack. The character\rquote 
s hand or foot remains \'93charged\'94 for a maximum number of rounds equal to the character\rquote 
s Strength modifier +1, or until the character makes his or her next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Focus [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: Add +2 to the DC for all saving throws against powers from the selected discipline.
\par Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the character takes the feat, it applies to a new discipline, but a psion must choose his or her primary discipline the first time he or she takes this feat.

\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Metabolism [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Con 13+, Rapid Metabolism.
\par Benefit: The character converts 1 point of normal damage to 1 point of subdual damage per hour, if he or she pays the cost of 1 power point per hour. If the character is unconscious or dying, Psionic Metabolism does not work.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Shot [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Dex 13+, Point Blank Shot.
\par Benefit: The character\rquote s ranged shots deal +1d4 points of piercing damage when he or she pays the cost of 1 power point. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the ranged attack. The arrow, bolt, or bullet remains 
\'93charged\'94 for a maximum number of rounds equal to the character\rquote s Strength modifier +1, or until he or she makes his or her next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psionic Weapon [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, Power Attack.
\par Benefit: The character\rquote 
s melee weapon deals +1d4 points of damage (slashing, piercing, or bludgeoning, as appropriate to the weapon) when the character pays the cost of 1 power point. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the melee a
ttack. The weapon remains \'94 for a maximum number of rounds equal to the character\rquote s Strength modifier +1, or until he or she makes his or her next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.

\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychic Bastion [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: The character gains +1 mental hardness against a foe\rquote 
s successful psionic attack when he or she pays the cost of 3 power points. The character decides whether or not to pay the cost after determining the failure or success of the psionic attack to breach his or her Will save.
\par Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times, each time gaining bonus mental hardness equal to the previous bonus +1, but the character must pay a cost equal to the previou
s cost + 8. The character decides what mental hardness increment to use within the range granted by gaining this feat multiple times.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychic Inquisitor [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Cha 13+, Psychoanalyst.
\par Benefit: When a living humanoid lies directly to the c
haracter, he or she perceives it. The character detects a maximum number of lies per conversation equal to his or her Charisma modifier. A conversation with an individual, once concluded, may not be renewed with Psychic Inquisitor active for a period of 8
 hours. The character decides when, or if, to begin using this feat during a conversation.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Psychoanalyst [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Cha 13+.
\par Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy, Bluff, and Intimidate checks against living humanoids with an
 Intelligence score of 4 or higher. He or she gets the same +2 bonus on Charisma checks used to influence or interact with living humanoids having an Intelligence score of 4 or higher.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Quicken Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Benefit: Manifesting a quickened power is 
a free action. A character can perform another action, even manifest another power, in the same round as he or she manifests a quickened power. A character may only manifest one quickened power per round. A power whose time to manifest is more than 1 full
 round cannot be quickened. The quickened power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.
\par Special: Possession of the Power Touch feat allows the use of that feat and one quickened power in the same round.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Rapid Metabolism [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Con 13+.
\par Benefit: The character naturally heals a number of hit points per day of rest equal to the standard healing rate + his or her Constitution modifier.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Return Shot [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Dex 13+, Point Blank Shot, Psionic Shot, reserve power points 5+.
\par Benefit: The character need not have a free hand (holding nothing) to use this feat, but he or she must relinquish a two-handed hold on a single item or drop a shield as a free action. Once per round when the character would normally be hit 
with a ranged weapon, he or she may make a Reflex save (DC 20; if the ranged weapon has an enhancement bonus to attack, the DC increases by that amount). If the character succeeds, he or she snatches the ranged weapon. The character must be aware of the a
ttack and not flat-footed, and cannot already have acted in the round. A character may only use this feat once in any given round.
\par Snatching a ranged weapon or ammunition (such as an arrow, bolt, or sling bullet) counts as a free action. If the character su
ccessfully retrieves a bolt, arrow, or sling bullet, the character can load and fire it back at the foe if the character holds the appropriate weapon. A bow requires a move-equivalent action, a crossbow requires a standard action, and a thrown weapon such
 as a spear or knife is a free action to throw back. If the character is not holding a ranged weapon suitable to the snatched ammunition in, the character cannot return the attack.
\par A character makes the return attack at a bonus equal to half the foe\rquote s ranged attack bonus (round down) + the character\rquote s full ranged attack bonus. Exceptional ranged weapons, such as boulders hurled by giants or spells, can\rquote 
t be snatched.
\par Special: If the character also has the Deflect Arrows feat, the character makes return attacks at a bonus equal to the foe\rquote s full ranged attack bonus + the character\rquote s full attack bonus.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Scribe Tattoo [Item Creation]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Manifester level 3rd+.
\par Benefit: The character can create a psionic tattoo of any psionic power of 3rd level or lower
 that he or she knows and that targets a creature or creatures (see Special, below). Scribing a psionic tattoo takes one day. When the character creates a psionic tattoo, he or she sets the manifester level. The manifester level must be sufficient to mani
fest the power in question and no higher than the character\rquote 
s own level. The base price of a psionic tattoo is its power level x its manifester level x 50 gp (inscribing a 0-level power costs 25 gp). To scribe a tattoo, the character must spend 1/25 of this
 base price in XP and use up raw materials costing half of this base price.
\par When a character creates a psionic tattoo, he or she makes any choices that he or she would normally make when manifesting the power. When its wearer physically activates the tattoo, the wearer is the target of the power. 
\par Any psionic tattoo that stores a power with an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the costs derived from the base price, the character must pay the XP when creating the tattoo.
\par Special: All Psychometabolism powers are an exception to the target criteria, and may be scribed into a tattoo despite the fact that they are personal powers.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Speed of Thought [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Wis 13+, reserve power points 1+.
\par Benefit: The character\rquote s base speed is equal to his or her normal speed +10.
\par Special: A character can take this feat multiple times. Each time increases his or her base speed by 10 feet and increases the prerequisite of reserve power points by 4. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Stand Still [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, reserve power points 1+.
\par Benefit: When a foe\rquote s movement would otherwise grant the character an attack of opportunity, the character may give up that attack and instead attack the foe prior to the foe\rquote s actual movement. This is akin to a re
adied action, but Stand Still doesn\rquote t affect the character\rquote 
s initiative count or actual readied actions, if any. The foe must succeed at a Fortitude save against a DC equal to 10 + the damage dealt, or be unable to move into or out of the area the character threatens\emdash 
essentially, this ends the movement of a foe who is closing, and prevents any movement of a foe who is fleeing (if the character is normally allowed an attack of opportunity against the fleeing foe). Since the character uses the Stand Still fea
t in place of his or her attack of opportunity, the character may only do so a number of times per round equal to the number of times per round he or she could make an attack of opportunity.
\par Normal: Attacks of opportunity occur after a foe has already moved within the area a character threatens; thus, a character is unable to affect their movement with an attack.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Talented [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Inner Strength.
\par Benefit: The character can manifest three more 0-level powers for free per day than normal.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Trigger Power [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Inner Strength, Talented, reserve power points (see below).
\par Benefit: Choose any 0-, 1st-, 2nd-, or 3rd-level power the character knows. From now on the character can attempt to trigger that power without paying its cost. 
To trigger a power, the character must first satisfy the requirement of a power point reserve equal to or greater than what it would normally cost to manifest the power. Then, make an ability check appropriate for the power\rquote 
s discipline. If the character m
eets or exceed the ability check DC (see below), the power is manifested normally with no power point cost. If the character fails the check, he or she is forced to pay its cost, but the power is still manifested normally. A character can\rquote 
t use Trigger Power in conjunction with psionic attack or defense modes.
\par DCs for the ability check are determined by level: 0-level, 11; 1st level, 13; 2nd level, 15; and 3rd level, 17.
\par A character cannot take 10 when using Trigger Power.
\par Special: A character can take this feat multiple times, each time using it for a new triggered power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Twin Power [Metapsionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 
Benefit: Manifesting a power altered by this feat causes the power to take effect twice on the target, as if the character were simultaneously manifesting the same power two times on the same location or target. Any
 variables in the power (such as targets, shaping an area, and so on) apply to both of the resulting powers. The target suffers all the effects of both powers individually and receives a saving throw for each. In some cases, failure of both of the target
\rquote s saving throws results in redundant effects, although any ally of the target would have to succeed at two negate attempts in order to free the target from the charm. A twinned power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.

\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Unavoidable Strike [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Str 13+, Psionic Fist, base attack bonus of +3 or more.
\par Benefit: If the character pays 5 power points per unarmed attack, he or she can resolve his or her unarmed attack as a touch attack for purposes of assessing the foe\rquote s 
Armor Class. The character must decide whether or not to pay the cost prior to making the unarmed melee attack. The character\rquote s hand or fist remains \'93charged\'94
 for a maximum number of rounds equal to his or her Strength modifier +1 or until the character\rquote s next attack, whichever occurs first. If the attack misses, the power point expenditure is wasted.
\par }{\caps\f0 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Up the Walls [Psionic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Prerequisite: Wis 13+, Speed of Thought, Psionic Charge, reserve power points 5+.
\par Benefit: The character can take part of one of his or her move actions on a wall if the character begins and end the move on a horizontal surface. The height the character can achieve on the wall is limited only by this movement restriction. If the charac
t
er does not end his or her move on a horizontal surface, he or she falls prone, taking damage as appropriate for his or her height above the floor. Treat the wall as a normal floor for the purposes of measuring movement. Passing the boundary between horiz
ontal and vertical is equivalent to 5 feet of movement along a normal floor. Opponents on the floor still get attacks of opportunity as the character moves up the wall within areas they threaten.
\par Special: A character can take other move actions in conjunction with moving on a wall. 
\par }}