{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f113\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f114\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f116\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f117\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f118\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f119\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f120\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f129\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f130\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f132\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f133\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f134\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f135\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\info{\author asmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy16\hr13\min30}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy31\hr17\min24}{\version120}{\edmins219}{\nofpages14}{\nofwords5293}{\nofchars30174}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\ulnone This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{
\par POWERS OVERVIEW
\par }{\ulnone 
\par 
\par MANIFESTING POWERS
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Choosing a Power
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A psion or psychic warrior who intends to manifest a power can select any power he or she knows, provided the character is capable of manifesting powers of that level or higher.
\par To manifest a power the character must pay power points, which count against his or her daily total, but the character can manifest the same power over and over if he or she has points left to pay for it.
\par Power Points: The psion and psychic warrior class tables show how many power points a character has access to each day, depending on level.
\par A power\rquote s cost is determined by its level, as shown below. Every power\rquote s cost is also noted in its description.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 Power Level\tab 0\tab 1\tab 2\tab 3\tab 4\tab 5\tab 6\tab 7\tab 8\tab 9
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Power point cost\tab 0/1\tab 1\tab 3\tab 5\tab 7\tab 9\tab 11\tab 13\tab 15\tab 17
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Manifestation Time
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A character can manifest a power with a manifestation time of 1 action as a standard action.
\par A power that takes 1 full round to manifest is a full-round action. It comes into effect just before the beginning of the character\rquote s turn in the round after he or she began manifesting the power. The 
character then acts normally after the power is completed. A power that takes 1 minute to manifest comes into effect just before the character\rquote 
s turn 1 minute later (and for each of those 10 rounds the character is manifesting a power as a full-round action).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Range
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A psionic power\rquote 
s range indicates how far from the manifester it can reach, as defined on the Range line of the power description. A power\rquote s range is the maximum distance from the manifester that the power\rquote s effect can occur, as well as the maxi
mum distance at which the manifester can designate the power\rquote s point of origin. If any portion of the area would extend beyond the range, that area is wasted. Standard ranges include:
\par 
\par Personal: The power affects only the manifester.
\par Touch: The manifester must touch a creature or object to affect it.
\par Close: The power can reach up to 25 feet away from the manifester. The maximum range increases 5 feet for every two full manifester levels.
\par Medium: The power can reach up to 100 feet, plus 10 feet per manifester level.
\par Long: The power can reach up to 400 feet, plus 40 feet per psionic class level.
\par Unlimited: The power can reach anywhere on the same plane of existence.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Aiming a Power
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The manifester must make some choice about whom the power is to affect or where the power\rquote 
s effect is to originate, depending on the type of power.
\par 
\par Target or Targets: Some powers have a target or targets. The character manifests these powers directly on creatures or objects, as defined by the power itself.
\par If the character manifests a targeted power on the wrong sort of target the power has no effect. If the target of a power is the manifester (\'93Target: You\'94), he or she does not receive a saving throw and 
neither power resistance nor spell resistance applies. The Saving Throw and Power Resistance headers are omitted from such powers.
\par 
\par Effect: Some powers create or summon things rather than affecting things that are already present. Unless otherwise noted in
 the power description, the manifester must designate the location where these things are to appear, either by seeing it or defining it. Range determines how far away an effect can appear, but if the effect is mobile it can move regardless of the power
\rquote s range. 
\par 
\par Ray: Some effects are rays. The character aims a ray as if using a ranged weapon, though typically the character makes a ranged touch attack rather than a normal ranged attack. As with a ranged weapon, the character can fire into the dark or at an 
invisible creature and hope to hit something. The character doesn't have to see the creature he or she is trying to hit, as the character does with a targeted spell. Intervening creatures and obstacles, however, can block the character's line of sight or 
provide cover for the creature the character is aiming at.
\par If a ray spell has a duration, it is the duration of the effect that the ray causes, not the length of time the ray itself persists.
\par 
\par Spread: Some effects spread out from a point of origin to a dist
ance described in the spell. The effect can extend around corners and into areas that the character can't see. Figure distance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the spell effect takes. 
\par The character must designate the point of origin for such an effect but need not have line of effect to all portions of the effect.
\par 
\par Area: Some powers affect an area. The manifester selects where the power originates, but otherwise doesn\rquote t control which creatures or objects the power affects. Sometimes a
 power describes a specially defined area, but usually an area falls into one of the categories described below. 
\par  
\par Burst: As with an effect, the character selects the power\rquote s point of origin. The power bursts out from this point, affecting whatever it cat
ches in its area. A burst power has a radius that indicates how far from the point of origin the power's effect extends.
\par 
\par Cone: When the character manifests a power with a cone area, the cone shoots away from the character in the direction the character de
signates. A cone starts as a point directly before the character, and it widens out as it goes. A cone's width at a given distance from the character equals that distance. Its far end is as wide as the effect is long.
\par 
\par Creatures: Some powers affect creatures directly, but they affect creatures in an area of some kind rather than individual creatures the character selects. The area might be a burst, a cone, or some other shape.
\par 
\par Many powers affect "living creatures," which means all creatures other than constructs and undead. If a power has a limited amount of targets it can affect, it will ignore those that it cannot affect.
\par 
\par Cylinder: As with a burst, the character selects the power's point of origin. This point is the center of a horizontal circle, and the power shoots down from the circle, filling a cylinder.
\par 
\par Emanation: Some powers have an area like a burst except that the effect continues to radiate from the point of origin for the duration of the power.
\par 
\par Objects: Some powers affect objects within an area the character selects.
\par 
\par Spread: Some powers spread out like a burst but can turn corners. The character selects the point of origin, and the power spreads out a given distance in all directions. Figure distance by actual distance traveled, takin
g into account turns the effect takes.
\par 
\par Other: A power can have a unique area, as defined in its description.
\par 
\par Line of Effect: A line of effect is a straight, unblocked path that indicates what a power can affect. A line of effect is canceled by a solid barrier. It's not blocked by fog, darkness, and other factors that limit normal sight.
\par A character must have a clear line of effect to any target that the character manifests a power on or to any space in which the character wishes to create an effect. The c
haracter must have a clear line of effect to the point of origin of any power the character manifests. For bursts, cones, cylinders, and emanating powers, the power only affects areas, creatures, or objects to which it has line of effect from its origin (
a burst's point, a cone's starting point, a cylinder's circle, or an emanating spell's point of origin).
\par An otherwise solid barrier with a hole of at least 1 square foot through it does not block a power's line of effect through the 5-foot section containing the hole.  The remainder of the barrier, if unbroken, still blocks line of effect.}{\cf6 
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Discipline
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
All powers are grouped according to their discipline. Each of the six disciplines is associated with a key ability score. The key ability score is important when manifesting a power, because it modifies the DC of the opponent\rquote 
s saving throw to resist a power, as described in Saving Throw, below. The power\rquote s name line gives both the discipline the power belongs to and the appropriate key ability score.
\par \tab 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Saving Throw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Most harmful powers allow an affected creature to make a saving throw to avoid some or all of the effect. The Saving Throw line in the power description defines which type of saving throw (if any) the power allows, with additional terms to describe ho
w saving throws against the power work.
\par 
\par Negates: This term means that the power has no effect on an affected creature that makes a successful saving throw.
\par 
\par Half: The power deals damage, and a successful saving throw halves the damage taken (round down).
\par 
\par Partial: The power causes an effect on its subject. A successful saving throw means that some lesser effect occurs as detailed in the descriptive text.
\par 
\par None: No saving throw is allowed.
\par 
\par (Object): The power can be manifested on objects, which receive saving throws only if they are magical or psionic, or if they are attended (held, worn, grasped, and so on) by a creature resisting the power, in which case the object gets the creature
\rquote s saving throw bonus unless its own bonus is greater. (This notation does not mean that a power can only be manifested on objects. Some powers with this notation can be manifested on creatures or objects.) A psionic item\rquote 
s save bonuses are each equal to 2 + one-half its manifester level.
\par 
\par (Harmless): The power is usually beneficial, not harmful, but a targeted creature can attempt a saving throw if it wishes.
\par 
\par Saving Throw Difficulty Class: Each time you manifest a power, you set the DC of an opponent\rquote s saving throw: 1d20 + the level of the power + your ability score modifier for the key ability.
\par 
\par Succeeding at a Saving Throw: A creature that successfully saves against a power without obvious physical effects feels a hostile force or a tin
gle, but it cannot deduce the exact nature of the attack. A character does not sense when creatures succeed at saving throws against effect and area powers.
\par 
\par Voluntarily Giving up a Saving Throw: A creature can voluntarily forgo a saving throw and willingly accept a power\rquote s result. Even a character with a special resistance to psionics or magic can suppress this if he or she wants to.
\par 
\par Items Surviving after a Saving Throw: Unless the descriptive text for the power specifies otherwise, all items carried and 
worn are assumed to survive a psionic attack. If a character rolls a natural 1 for his or her saving throw, however, an exposed item is harmed (provided the attack can harm objects). Determine which four significant objects are most likely to be struck an
d roll randomly among them. 
\par 
\par Table: Items Affected by Magical Attacks
\par 
\par Order*\tab \tab Item
\par ------          ----
\par 1st\tab \tab Shield
\par 2nd\tab \tab Armor
\par 3rd\tab \tab Magic/Psionic helmet (or circlet/headband/third eye)
\par 4th\tab \tab Item in hand (including weapon, wand, etc.)
\par 5th\tab \tab Magic/Psionic cloak
\par 6th\tab \tab Stowed or sheathed weapon
\par 7th\tab \tab Magic/Psionic bracers
\par 8th\tab \tab Magic/Psionic clothing
\par 9th\tab \tab Magic/Psionic jewelry (including rings)
\par 10th\tab \tab Anything else
\par *In order of most likely to least likely to be affected.
\par 
\par The randomly determined item must make a saving throw against the attack form and suffer whatever damage the attack deals.
\par If an item is not carried or worn and is not psionic, it does not get a saving throw. It simply is dealt the appropriate damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power resistance is a special defensive ability. If a character\rquote 
s power is being resisted by a creature with power resistance, the character must make a manifester level check (1d20 + manifester level) at least equal to the creature\rquote s power resistance (PR) for the power to affect that creature. 
\par The defender\rquote s power resistance is like an \'93Armor Class\'94 against psionic attacks.
\par Normally, a defender\rquote s spell resistance functions just like power resistance in its ability to resist psionic powers.  Likewise, power resistance grants psionic creatures an equal chance to resist spells, using the same mechanism.
\par A psionic power\rquote s Power Resistance line and descriptive text tell whether power resistanc
e protects creatures from it. In many cases, power resistance applies only when a resistant creature is targeted by the power, not when a resistant creature encounters a power that is already in place.
\par The terms \'93object\'94 and \'93harmless\'94 mean the same as for
 saving throws. A creature with power resistance must voluntarily drop the resistance in order to receive the effects of a power noted as harmless without the manifester level check described above.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The Power\rquote s Result
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Once the character knows which creatu
res (or objects or areas) are affected, and whether those creatures have made successful saving throws (if any), the character can apply whatever results a power entails, as defined in the descriptive text.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Duration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A power\rquote s Duration line tells how long the energy of the power lasts.
\par 
\par Timed Durations: Many durations are measured in rounds, minutes, hours, or some other increment. When the time is up, the magic goes away and the spell ends. If a power's duration is variable the DM rolls it secretly.
\par 
\par Instantaneous: The power\rquote s energy comes and goes the instant the power is manifest, though the consequences of the power might be long-lasting. 
\par 
\par Permanent: The energy remains as long as the effect does. This means the power is vulnerable to dispel psionics.
\par 
\par Concentration: The power lasts as long as the character concentrates on it. Concentrating to maintain a power is a standard action that doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity. 
\par 
\par Anything that could break the character's concentration when manifesting a powe
r can also break the character's concentration while the character is maintaining one, causing the power to end (see Concentration, below). The character can't manifest a power while concentrating on another one. Sometimes a power lasts for a short time a
f
ter the character ceases concentrating. In these cases, the power keeps going for the stated length of time after the character stops concentrating. Otherwise, the character must concentrate to maintain the power, but the character can't maintain it for m
ore than a stated duration in any event.
\par 
\par Subjects, Effects, and Areas: If the power affects creatures directly, the result travels with the subjects for the spell's duration. If the power creates an effect, the effect lasts for the duration. The effect mig
ht move or remain still. Such effects can be destroyed prior to when their durations end. If the power affects an area, then the power stays with that area for the power's duration. Creatures become subject to the power when they enter the area and become
 no longer subject to it when they leave.
\par 
\par Touch Spells and Holding the Charge: If the character doesn't discharge a touch power on the round the character manifests the power, the character can hold the discharge of the power (hold the charge) indefinitely. 
\par 
\par The character can make touch attacks round after round. The character can touch one friend (or the character can touch his or her self) as a standard action or up to six friends as a full-round action. If the character touches anything with the charact
er's hand while holding a charge, the power discharges. If the character manifests another power, the touch power dissipates.
\par 
\par Discharge: A few powers last for a set duration or until triggered or discharged.
\par 
\par (D): If the Duration line ends with "(D)," the
 character can dismiss the power at will. The character must be within range of the power's effect. Dismissing a power is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. A power that depends on concentration is dismissible by its very natu
re, and dismissing it does not require an action (since all the character has to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {XP Cost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Some high-level powers entail an experience point (XP) cost to the manifester. No p
ower can restore the lost XP. The manifester cannot spend so much XP that he or she loses a level, so a character cannot manifest the power unless he or she has enough XP to spare. However, the character may, on gaining enough XP to achieve a new level, i
mmediately spend the XP on manifesting the power rather than keeping it to advance a level.
\par The Power Points line for a power includes a notation when an XP cost must be paid.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Display
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {When psionic powers are manifested, secondary displays usually accompany
 the primary effect. The psionic display may be auditory, material, mental, olfactory, or visual. No power\rquote 
s secondary display is significant enough to create consequences for the psionic creatures, allies, or opponents during combat. The secondary effects for a power only occur if the power\rquote s description indicates it.
\par If multiple powers with similar displays are in effect simultaneously, the displays do not necessary become more intense. Instead, the general display remains much the same, though with minut
e spikes in intensity. A Psicraft check (DC 10 + 1 per additional power in use) reveals the exact number of simultaneous powers in play.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Auditory (Au): From the manifester's vicinity or in the vicinity of the power's subject (manifester's choice), a bass-pitched hum}{ }{
issues, eerily akin to many deep-pitched voices. The sound grows in a heartbeat from hardly noticeable to as loud as}{ }{a shout, which can be heard within 100 feet. At the manifester's option, the instantaneous sound can be so soft that it}{ }{
can be heard within 15 feet only with a successful Listen check (DC 10). Some powers describe unique auditory}{ }{displays.
\par }{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Material (Ma): The subject or the area is briefly slicked with a harmless ectoplasmic goo. The slime evaporates after 1 round regardless of the power\rquote s duration.

\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Mental (Me): A subtle chime rings in the minds of creatures within 15 feet of either the manifester or the subject (at the}{ }{
manifester's option) for the space of 1 second (or lasts for the duration, at the manifester's option). Some powers}{ }{describe unique mental displays.}{
\par 
\par }{Olfactory (Ol): An odd but familiar odor brings to mind a brief mental flash of a memory long buried. The scent is difficult to pin}{ }{down, and no two individuals ever describe it the same wa}{y}{. The odor originates from
 the manifester and spreads to a}{ }{distance of 20 feet, then fades in less than 1 second (or lasts for the duration, at the manifester's option).}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Visual (Vi): The manifester\rquote s eyes burn like points of fire while the power remains in effect, and an instantaneous flash of light sweeps away from the manifester to a distance of 5 feet, unless the power has a unique visual secondary effect.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Concentration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {To manifest a power, a manifester must concentrate. If something interrupts the character\rquote 
s concentration while he or she is manifesting a power, the character must make a Concentration check or lose the power points, with the power unmanifested. The more distracting the interruption and the higher the
 level of the power that the character is trying to manifest, the higher the DC is.  If the character fails the check, he or she loses the power points just as if the character had manifested the power to no effect.
\par 
\par Psionics are spell-like abilities. In m
ost cases, a spell-like ability (and manifesting a power) works just like a spell, and casting a spell works much like manifesting a power for the purposes of the restrictions that apply. Those restrictions are the same as those on casting a spell, except
 for one important difference: Armor does not hinder the manifestation of a power. In all other cases, manifesting a power follows the rules for casting a spell.
\par Situations (other than armor) that interrupt a spell also interrupt the manifestation of a psio
nic power. When a power manifestation is interrupted, the manifester loses the power points he or she would have spent to successfully manifest the power. If the manifester was using a free 0-level power, the power fails, but the manifester does not use u
p a free manifestation.  See the Concentration skill for details on interruptions.
\par 
\par Manifesting Defensively: If a character wants to manifest a power without provoking any attacks of opportunity, he or she needs to dodge and weave. To manifest the power, th
e character must succeed at a Concentration check (DC 15 + the level of the power being manifested). The power fails and the character still loses the power points if he or she fails the check.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Manifester Level
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A power\rquote s effect and duration often depend on its manifester level, which is equal to the character
\rquote s psionic class level. 
\par If desired, a character can manifest a power at a lower manifester level than normal, but the manifester level must be high enough for the character to manifest the power in qu
estion, and all level-dependent features must be based on the same manifester level.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Failure 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
If a character tries to manifest a power in conditions where the characteristics of the power (range, area, etc.) cannot be made to conform, the manifestation fails and power points are wasted. 
\par Powers also fail if the character\rquote s concentration is broken (see Concentration, above).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Special Power Effects
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Certain special power features apply to all powers.
\par 
\par Attacks: Some powers refer to attacking. All offensive combat actions, even those that don\rquote t damage opponents are attacks. All powers that opponents resi
st with saving throws, that deal damage, or that otherwise harm or hamper subjects are attacks. 
\par 
\par Bonus Types: Many powers give creatures bonuses to various scores. Each bonus has a type that indicates how the power grants the bonus. The important aspect of bonus types is that two bonuses of the same type don\rquote 
t generally stack. With the exception of dodge bonuses, most circumstance bonuses, and bonuses granted by a suit of armor and a shield used in conjunction by a creature, only the better bonus works. The same principle applies to penalties\emdash 
a character suffering two or more penalties of the same type applies only the worst one.
\par Bonus types include armor, competence, deflection, enhancement, enlargement, haste, inherent, insight, luck, morale, natural armor, profane, resistance, sacred, and synergy.
\par 
\par Descriptors: Some powers have descriptors indicating something about how the power functions.  Most of these descriptors have no game effect by themselves, but they govern how the power interacts with other pow
ers, with spells, with special abilities, with unusual creatures, with alignment, and so on.
\par The descriptors are acid, chaotic, cold, darkness, death, electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, light, mind-affecting, sonic, and teleportation.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionics-Magic Transparency
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The default rule for psionics and magic is that psionic powers interact with spells and spells interact with psionic powers in the same way a spell or normal spell-like ability interacts with another spell or sp
ell-like ability. This is known as transparency.  
\par Though not explicitly called out in spell descriptions or magic item descriptions, follow this rule: Spells, spell-like abilities, and magic items that could potentially affect psionics do affect psionics.
\par Spell resistance functions against powers and vice versa.
\par All spells that negate or dispel magic are equally effective against psionic powers of the same level using the same mechanics, and vice versa. 
\par The spell detect magic detects psionic powers, their number, and their strength and location within 3 rounds (though a Psicraft check is necessary to determine the discipline of the psionic aura).
\par \'93Dead magic\'94 areas are also \'93dead psionics\'94 areas.
\par Enchantment Resistance: Races and classes with resistance to spells of the Enchantment school receive the same bonus to resist all psionic powers with the compulsion descriptor. 
\par Spells and Powers follow the same rules for multiple effects and bonus stacking.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Powers
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psions and psychic warriors manifest psi
onic powers. Psionic powers involve the direct manipulation of personal mental energy. These manipulations require natural talent and personal meditation.
\par 
\par Psions and Psychic Warriors
\par A psionic character\rquote s level limits the number of power points available for manifesting powers (see the class description). A psion\rquote 
s most important ability score is determined by his or her primary discipline, which if high enough grants additional power points per level.  Members of either class must have a key ability score equal to at least 10 + the power\rquote 
s level to manifest that power.
\par 
\par Daily Power Point Acquisition: Each day, a psion or psychic warrior needs 8 hours of rest, after which he or she spends 15 minutes concentrating. During this period, the psionic character\rquote 
s mind is charged anew with power points, reaching the maximum allowed for the character based on level, key ability score (for psion only), and feat acquisition. Without such a period of refreshment, the 
psionic character does not regain power points used up the day before. A psionic character can only refresh his or her power points once every twenty-four hours.
\par 
\par 0-Level Powers: Also called talents, 0-level powers are an exception to the normal rules gove
rning the payment of power points. Psionic characters can manifest 0-level powers a number of times per day equal to their class bonus (three for psions, two for psychic warriors) + manifester level. After that, they must pay 1 power point each time they 
wish to manifest a 0-level power, until the next day.
\par 
\par Adding Powers to a Psionic Character\rquote s Repertoire: Psions and psychic warriors gain powers and power points each time they achieve new experience levels; they never gain powers any other way. When a psi
onic character gains a new level, consult the appropriate table in the class description to learn how many powers that character now knows. Refer also to the appropriate class table to learn the number of power points the character now has. The new powers
 must come from the appropriate class\rquote s power list. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Using Stored Power Points
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A variety of psionic items exist that store power points for later use, chiefly the storage device called the crystal capacitor. Regardless of what sort of item stores the power
 points, psionic characters all must follow strict rules when tapping stored power points.
\par 
\par The Bottleneck: When using power points from a storage item to manifest a power or a psionic attack/defense mode, a psionic character may not supplement the power\rquote s
 cost with power points stored in other items or from his own personal power point reserve.  The points required to manifest a power must be supplied entirely by the manifester or the storage item. 
\par 
\par Recharging: Most power point storage devices allow psionic characters to \'93recharge\'94 the item with their own power points. This depletes the character\rquote 
s pool on a 1-for-1 basis as if he or she had manifested a power; however, those power points remain indefinitely stored.
\par The opposite is not true\emdash psionic characters may not use power points stored in a storage item to replenish their own power point reserve.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism Powers and Attacks
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The Psychometabolism discipline includes powers that give a manifester the ability to turn unarmed attacks (or bites) int
o standard melee attacks. However, the total number of attacks the manifester can make in the round does not change. The manifester does now have an off-hand weapon in the form of a second claw (or a claw attack in addition to a held weapon or even a bite
, if manifesting another power) and can use the standard rules for making off-hand attacks described in the Player\rquote 
s Handbook, treating all claw and bite attacks as light weapons. A manifester wielding a weapon could use such a claw or bite attack as an off
-hand attack or as the primary attack in the round, as desired. Additionally, the Two-Weapon Fighting and Ambidexterity feats reduce attack roll penalties when using these enhanced attacks with the off hand.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Disciplines
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Every power belongs to one 
of six psionic disciplines. A discipline is a group of related psionic powers that work in similar ways.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Clairsentience powers enable the manifester to learn secrets long forgotten, to glimpse the immediate future and predict the far future
, to find hidden things, and to generally know what is normally unknowable. Many Clairsentience powers have cone-shaped areas. These move with the manifester and extend in the direction he or she looks. The cone defines the area that the manifester can sw
eep each round. If the manifester studies the same area for multiple rounds, he or she can often gain addition
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Metacreativity powers create objects, creatures, or some form of matter. Creatures the manifester creates usually, but not always, obeys his or her commands.
\par A creature or object brought into being cannot appear inside another creature or object, nor can it appear floating in an empty space. It must arrive in an open location on a surface capable of supporting it. The creature or obj
ect must appear within the power\rquote s range, but it does not have to remain within the range.
\par The power draws raw ectoplasm from the Astral Plane to create an object or creature in the place the psionic character designates (subject to the limits noted above). Objects created in this fashion are generally as solid and durable as a normal object, d
e
spite their originally diaphanous substance. If the power has a duration other than instantaneous, psionic energy holds the creation together, and when the power ends or is negated, the created creature or object vanishes without a trace. Some metacreativ
e powers have instantaneous durations. In these cases, the created object or creature is merely assembled through psionics. It lasts indefinitely and does not depend on psionics for its existence.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis powers manipulate energy or tap
 the power of the mind to produce a desired end. Many of these powers produce interesting visual effects above and beyond the standard secondary display, such as moving, melting, transforming, or blasting a target. Psychokinesis powers can deal large amou
nts of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolic powers change the physical properties of the psionic character.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation powers move the manifester, an object, or another creature through space and time.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy powers can spy on and affect the minds of others, influencing or controlling their behavior.
\par Most telepathic powers are mind-affecting. Two types of powers grant the manifester influence over a subject creature:
\par Charm: The power changes the way the subject views the manifester, typically making the subject see him or her as a good friend.
\par Compulsion: The power forces the subject to act in some manner or changes the way his or her mind works. Some powers determine the subject\rquote s actions (or the effects on the subject), some allow the manifester to determine the subject\rquote 
s actions when the manifester manifests them, and others give the manifester ongoing control over the subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Special Abilities
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic creatures can create psionic effects without taking a psionic cl
ass (although many do). Characters using psionic items can also create psionic effects. These effects come in two types: spell-like and supernatural.
\par Spell-Like Psionic Abilities: Spell-like abilities resemble spells. The manifestation of psionic powers by
 a psion or psychic warrior is considered a spell-like ability, as is the free manifestation of powers by creatures without a psionic class (creatures that have psionic abilities).  In most cases, a creature\rquote 
s innate psionic ability works just like the power of the same name. A few such abilities are unique, and their details are explained in the text where the ability is described.
\par Regardless of the manifester, psionic powers and abilities have no verbal, somatic, or material components. The user activates the power mentally. Armor never affects a power\rquote 
s use. Psionic abilities have a manifestation time of 1 action unless noted otherwise in the ability description.
\par Creatures\rquote  psionic abilities are treated the same as psionic powers with regard to spell resistance and suppression by dispel magic. They do not function in areas where psionics are suppressed or negated.
\par As noted above, some creatures do take levels in psionic character classes. They manifest psionic powers just as psions or psychic warriors do. 
An individual creature could have some freely manifested psionic abilities and other powers that must be paid for with power points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Disease
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A character with psionic powers is subject to afflictions that specifically target their source of power.

\par As with any disease, a psionic character who is injured or attacked by a creature carrying a disease or parasite, or who otherwise comes in contact with contaminated material, must make an immediate Fortitude save. On a success, the disease fails to gain 
a
 foothold. On a failure, the character takes damage (or suffers the specified effect) after an incubation period. Once per day afterward, the afflicted character must make a successful Fortitude save to avoid repeating the damage. Two successful saving th
rows in a row indicate he or she has fought off the disease.
\par 
\par Cascade Flu: Spread by vermin (injury); DC 13; Incubation: one day; Damage: psionic cascade.
\par A psionic cascade is a loss of control over psionic facul
ties. Following the incubation period, using power points becomes dangerous. Every time the afflicted character manifests a power, he or she must make a Concentration check (DC 16). On a failed check, a psionic cascade is triggered. The power operates nor
mally, but during the following round, without the character\rquote s volition, two additional powers he or she knows manifest randomly, debiting their power cost from the character\rquote 
s reserve. During the third round, three additional powers manifest, and so on, until all the psionic character\rquote 
s power points are drained. (A psionic character who only knows a few powers but has many power points could run through his or her repertoire many times.) Powers activated by the cascade target randomly. Roll d%: On a 01\endash 50 r
esult, the power affects the character, and 51\endash 
00 indicates that the power targets other creatures in the vicinity (powers with personal and touch range always affect only the psionic character). Psionic creatures (who manifest their powers freely) cascade
 until all the powers they know have manifested at least twice.
\par 
\par Cerebral Parasites: Spread by contact with infected psionic creatures (contact); DC 15; Incubation: 1d4 days; Damage: drains 1d8 power points.
\par Cerebral parasites are tiny organisms, undetecta
ble to normal sight. An afflicted character may not even know he or she carries the parasites. Psionic creatures with cerebral parasites are limited to using each of their known powers only once per day (instead of freely manifesting them).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Format
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Each power description follows the same format.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Name
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This is the name by which the power is generally known. Powers might be known by other names in some locales, and psionic characters often have different names for their powers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Discipline and Descriptors
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This is the discipline to which the power belongs.  Any descriptors that apply are given here [in brackets].

\par Disciplines: Clairsentience, Metacreativity, Psycho\- kinesis, Psychometabolism, Psychoportation, and Telepathy. The key ability score for each discipline is given (in parentheses) for ease of calculating target DCs.
\par Descriptors: Acid, chaotic, cold, compulsion*, darkness, death, electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, light, mind-affecting, sonic, and teleportation.
\par *Compulsion is treated as a subschool of the Enchantment school of magic, but is used as a descriptor here to the same effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Level
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This is the strength level of the power, ranging from 0-level (talents) through 9th level (the most powerful). This entry notes which classes can manifest this power. A power\rquote s level affects the DC for any saving throw allowed against the power.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Display
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This gives the type of display that accompanies manifestation of the power.
\par Displays: Au (Audible), Ma (Material), Me (Mental), Ol (Olfactory), and Vi (Visible). 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Manifestation Time
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The time required to manifest the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Range
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The maximum distance from the manifester at which the power can affect a target.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Target or Targets/Effect/Area
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The number of creatures, dimensions, volume, weight, and so on, that the power affects. 
\par 
\par }{\i Duration}{
\par How long the power lasts.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Saving Throw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Whether a power allows a saving throw, what type of saving throw it is, and the effect of a successful saving throw.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Whether power resistance (PR) resists the power. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Points
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The power\rquote 
s cost to manifest. Talents (0-level powers) cost 1 power point to manifest after a character uses up his or her allotted free manifestations per day.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Descriptive Text
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This portion of the power description details what the power does and how it works. If one of the previous portions of the description included \'93(see text),\'94 this is where the explanation is found. 
\par }}