{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f115\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f116\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f118\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f119\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f120\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f121\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f122\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f331\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f332\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}
{\f334\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f335\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f336\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f337\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f338\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon26 \snext15 Hanging Indent (Core Body);}{\s16\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\keep\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon26 \snext16 Psychic War Powers;}{\s17\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext17 Skil/Rank/Abil/Etc. Tab;}{\s18\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon22 \snext18 Skill/Rank/Ability Tabs;}{\s19\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon22 \snext19 Table Shaded Line;}{\s20\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon15 \snext20 Monster stats;}{\s21\qj \fi-900\li1080\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext21 Powers List;}{\s22\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext22 Table Body;}{\s23\ql \fi-180\li180\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext23 
Normal1;}{\s24\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext24 Legal Page Text;}{\s25\ql \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext25 Running Head-LEFT;}{\s26\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext26 
Hanging bullet;}{\s27\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon28 \snext27 H4;}{\s28\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0
\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon29 \snext28 H3;}{\s29\qr \li0\ri0\sb400\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext29 H2;}{\s30\qr \li0\ri0\sl-400\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext30 H1;}{
\s31\qc \li0\ri0\sl-480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext31 FOLIO;}{\s32\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext32 Core Body;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext33 CHAPTER NUMBER;}{
\s34\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext34 CHAPTER NAME;}{\s35\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext35 Body Text;}{\s36\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat9 \f27\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext36 Document Map;}}
{\info{\title  T11835_620_PsiHdbkCh5.qxd}{\author Andrew Smith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy16\hr16\min43}{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy31\hr17\min38}{\version81}{\edmins114}{\nofpages12}{\nofwords3469}{\nofchars19775}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \psz1\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\ulnone 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{
\par POWERS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par The psion power list uses abbreviated names as follows: Clasen (Clairsentience); Metcre (Metacreativity); Psykin (Psychokinesis); Psymet (Psycho\- metabolism); Psyport (Psycho\-portation); and Telep (Telepathy). 
\par 
\par Hit Dice: The term \'93Hit Dice\'94 is used synonymously with \'93character levels\'94 for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of creatures. (Creatures with only Hit Dice, not classes, have character levels equal to their Hit Dice.)
\par 
\par Manifester Level: A power\rquote s effect and duration often depend on manifester level, which is the manifester\rquote s psionic class level. Creatures with no classes have a manifester level equal to their Hit Dice unless otherwise specified.
\par 
\par Creatures and Characters: \'93Creatures\'94 and \'93characters\'94 are used synonymously in these power descriptions.
\par 
\par Powers that Look Like Spells: A power with the same name as a spell has the same effect as that spell. The difference is that psionic powers are spell-like abilities.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psion Powers
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {0-LEVEL PSION POWERS (Talents)
\par Clasen
\par \tab Detect Psionics\tab \tab Detects the presence of psionic activity.
\par \tab Inkling\tab \tab \tab \tab 50% likely to know if an intended action is good or bad.
\par \tab Know Direction \tab \tab Know which way is north.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Bolt\tab \tab \tab \tab Creates a short-lived bolt, arrow, or bullet.
\par \tab Finger of Fire\tab \tab \tab Deals 1d3 fire damage to one foe.
\par \tab Trinket\tab \tab \tab \tab Creates a short-lived trinket.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Control Shadow\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 C}{ontrols a normal shadow like a puppet.
\par \tab Far Hand\tab \tab \tab Minor telekinesis.
\par \tab Far Punch\tab \tab \tab Telekinetic punch deals 1 damage.
\par \tab My Light\tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 E}{yes emit a 20-ft. cone of light.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Elfsight\tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 The manifester}{ has low-light vision.
\par \tab Lesser Natural Armor\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 G}{ain +1 natural armor bonus.
\par \tab Talons\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 U}{narmed attacks deal +1 damage.
\par \tab Verve\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 G}{ain 1 temporary hit point.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Burst\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject\rquote s speed improves by 10 ft. for 1 round.
\par \tab Catfall\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 R}{ecover well from a fall.
\par \tab Float\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 B}{uoys a subject in water or other liquid.
\par Telep
\par \tab Daze\tab \tab \tab \tab Creature loses next action.
\par \tab Distract\tab \tab \tab Subject\rquote s mind wanders, imparting a \endash 1 penalty on some 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {actions.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Missive\tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 S}{ends a one-way telepathic message to subject.
\par \tab Telempathic Projection\tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 M}{odifies subject\rquote s emotions.
\par 
\par 1st-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Combat Precognition}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 \tab \tab G}{ains a +1 insight bonus to AC.
\par \tab Destiny Dissonance\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 T}{ouch deals 1d8 subdual damage.
\par \tab Expanded Vision\tab \tab Wider vision allows }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{ to see more.
\par \tab Identify\tab \tab \tab Identify single feature of psionic item.
\par \tab Know Location\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 The manifester}{ knows where he or she is.
\par \tab Object Reading\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 K}{nows about an object\rquote s past.
\par \tab Steadfast Gaze\tab \tab \tab Gaze attacks hold no terror for}{\expnd-1\expndtw-5  the manifester}{.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct I\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{.
\par \tab Firefall\tab \tab \tab \tab Fiery sparks deal 1d4 fire damage in 10-ft. radius.
\par \tab Grease\tab \tab \tab \tab Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery.
\par \tab Lesser Metaphysical Weapon\tab Weapon gains a +1 bonus.
\par \tab Minor Creation\tab \tab Creates one cloth or wood object.
\par \tab Psycholuminescence\tab \tab Object sheds silvery light.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Biocurrent\tab \tab \tab Continuous bioelectrical current deals 1d4 electricity 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {damage/round to up to two living creatures.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Control Light\tab \tab \tab Adjust light levels up or down.
\par \tab Control Object\tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 T}{elekinetically animates a small object.
\par \tab Create Sound\tab \tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 C}{reates the sound he or she desires.
\par \tab Lesser Concussion\tab \tab Pummel foe for 1d6 damage.
\par \tab Matter Agitation\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 H}{eats a creature or object.
\par \tab Stomp\tab \tab \tab \tab Shock waves in the ground knock foes prone. 
\par Psymet
\par \tab Biofeedback\tab \tab \tab Self-control allows }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{ to take some damage as 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {subdual damage.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Bite of the Wolf\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 B}{ite attack deals 1d8 damage.
\par \tab Compression\tab \tab \tab Shrink 10%/level (max 50%).
\par \tab Empathic Transfer\tab \tab Absorb others\rquote  hurts.
\par \tab Feel Light\tab \tab \tab Use tactile sensation to see.
\par \tab Feel Sound\tab \tab \tab Use tactile sensation to hear.
\par \tab Hammer\tab \tab \tab Touch deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage.
\par \tab Hear Light\tab \tab \tab Use auditory sensation to see.
\par \tab Lesser Body Adjustment\tab Heal 1d8 hp, or gain a +1 bonus on  next Fortitude save to 
\par }\pard \ql \li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {resist poison or disease, or heal 1 point of temporary ability damage.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab See Sound\tab \tab \tab Use visual sensation to hear.
\par \tab Vigor\tab \tab \tab \tab Gain 3 temporary hit points.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Call Weaponry\tab \tab Never lack for a weapon.
\par \tab Dissipating Touch\tab \tab Touch deals 1d8 damage. 
\par \tab Feather Fall\tab \tab \tab Objects or creatures fall slowly.
\par \tab Skate\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject slides (skillfully) along the ground as if ice.
\par \tab Spider Climb\tab \tab \tab Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings.
\par Telep
\par \tab Attraction\tab \tab \tab Subject has an attraction }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{ specifies.
\par \tab Charm Person\tab \tab \tab Makes one person }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester\rquote s}{ friend.
\par \tab Conceal Thoughts\tab \tab }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 The manifester}{ conceals his or her motives.
\par \tab Demoralize\tab \tab \tab Foes suffer \endash 1 penalty on some actions.
\par \tab Disable\tab \tab \tab Subjects incorrectly believe they are disabled.
\par \tab Empathy\tab \tab \tab Know the subject\rquote s surface emotions.
\par \tab Lesser Mindlink\tab \tab Forge a limited mental bond with another creature.
\par \tab Sense Link\tab \tab \tab Sense what the subject senses (single sense).
\par 
\par 2nd-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Augury\tab \tab \tab Learn if an intended action will be good or bad.
\par \tab Clairaudience/Clairvoyance\tab Hear or see at a distance.
\par \tab Combat Prescience\tab \tab Gain a +2 insight bonus on attack roll.
\par \tab Darkvision\tab \tab \tab See in the dark.
\par \tab Recall Pain\tab \tab \tab Foe takes 3d6 damage from painful memory.
\par \tab See Invisibility\tab \tab Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
\par \tab Sensitivity to Psychic Impressions\tab Find out about an area\rquote s past.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct II\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{.
\par \tab Burning Ray\tab \tab \tab Fiery ray deals 3d6 damage to foe.
\par \tab Ectoplasmic Cocoon\tab \tab Encapsulate a foe so it can\rquote t move.
\par \tab Ecto Puppet\tab \tab \tab Directly control an astral construct.
\par \tab Sudden Minor Creation\tab Quickly create cloth or wood object.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Concussion\tab \tab \tab Pummel foe for 3d6 damage.
\par \tab Control Air\tab \tab \tab Wind velocity increased or decreased by up to 10 miles per 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {hour + 5 miles per hour/level.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Control Body\tab \tab \tab Take rudimentary control of foe\rquote s limbs.
\par \tab Control Flames\tab \tab Control heat and movement of a fire.
\par \tab Invisibility\tab \tab \tab Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks.
\par \tab Sever the Tie\tab \tab \tab Deal 3d8 damage to undead in 10-ft. radius.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Animal Affinity\tab \tab Possess one ability score of a chosen animal.
\par \tab Body Adjustment\tab \tab Heal 3d6 damage, or gain a bonus on the next Fortitude 
\par }\pard \ql \li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {save to resist poison or disease, or heal 2 temporary ability points.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Body Equilibrium\tab \tab Walk on nonsolid surfaces.
\par \tab Chameleon\tab \tab \tab Gain a +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.
\par \tab Claws of the Bear\tab \tab Unarmed attack deals 1d12 damage.
\par \tab Expansion\tab \tab \tab Grow 10%/level (max 100%).
\par \tab Painful Touch\tab \tab \tab Unarmed attacks deal an extra 1d6 subdual damage.
\par \tab Sustenance\tab \tab \tab Go without food and water.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Glide\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject glides at speed of 20 ft.
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Knock\tab \tab \tab \tab Opens locked or psionically locked doors.
\par Levitate\tab \tab \tab Subject moves up and down at }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester\rquote s}{ direction.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Psionic Lock\tab \tab \tab Psionically locks a portal or chest.
\par \tab Sense Psychoportation\tab Know when others use this discipline.
\par Telep
\par \tab Aversion\tab \tab \tab Subject has aversion }{\expnd-1\expndtw-5 the manifester}{ specifies.
\par \tab Brain Lock\tab \tab \tab Subject cannot move or take any mental actions.
\par \tab Detect Thoughts\tab \tab Detect subject\rquote s surface thoughts.
\par \tab Inflict Pain\tab \tab \tab Mental attack deals 3d6 damage.
\par \tab Intrusive Sense Link\tab \tab Subject senses what the manifester senses.
\par \tab Suggestion\tab \tab \tab Compels subject to follow suggested action.
\par 
\par 3rd-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Danger Sense\tab \tab \tab Gain a +4 bonus against traps.
\par \tab Invisibility Purge\tab \tab Dispels invisibility within 5 ft./level.
\par \tab Nondetection\tab \tab \tab Hides subject from Clair\- sentience powers and remote 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {viewing.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Poison Sense\tab \tab \tab Sense poison in 30-ft. radius.
\par \tab Remote Viewing\tab \tab See subject from a distance.
\par \tab Ubiquitous Vision\tab \tab Manifester has all-around vision.
\par \tab Undead Sense\tab \tab \tab Sense the presence of undead.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct III\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for manifester.
\par \tab Create Food and Water\tab Feeds three humans (or one horse)/level.
\par \tab Metaphysical Weapon\tab \tab Weapon gains a +3 bonus.
\par \tab Whitefire\tab \tab \tab Deals 5d4 fire damage in 20-ft. radius.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Cone of Sound\tab \tab Sonic energy deals 5d4 sonic damage.
\par \tab Control Sound\tab \tab \tab Creates very specific sounds.
\par \tab Greater Concussion\tab \tab Pummel foe for 5d6 damage.
\par \tab Negate Psionics\tab \tab Cancels psionic powers and effects.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Bite of the Tiger\tab \tab Bite attack deals 2d8 damage.
\par \tab Claws of the Vampire\tab \tab Unarmed attack deals 1d8 damage. Heals the same amount.
\par \tab Displacement\tab \tab \tab Attacks miss manifester 50% of the time.
\par \tab Duodimensional Hand\tab Unarmed attacks deal slashing damage with an increased threat range.
\par \tab Ectoplasmic Form\tab \tab Amorphous form is hard to hurt.
\par \tab Improved Biofeedback\tab Take charge of body\rquote s damage.
\par \tab Rejuvenation\tab \tab \tab Heal 1 point of temporary ability damage/hour.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Astral Steed\tab \tab \tab Astral steed appears for 1 hour/level.
\par \tab Dimension Slide\tab \tab Instantly move to any spot seen in close range.
\par \tab Fly\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject flies at speed of 90 ft.
\par \tab Time Hop\tab \tab \tab Subject hops forward in time 3d6 rounds.
\par Telep
\par \tab Charm Monster\tab \tab Makes monster believe it is your ally.
\par \tab Crisis of Breath\tab \tab Disrupt the subject\rquote s breathing.
\par \tab False Sensory Input\tab \tab Falsify one of the subject\rquote s senses.
\par \tab Fate Link\tab \tab \tab Link the fates of two targets.
\par \tab Lesser Domination\tab \tab Forces subject to obey manifester\rquote s will.
\par \tab Mindlink\tab \tab \tab Have a mental bond with others.
\par \tab Schism\tab \tab \tab \tab Splits manifester\rquote s mind into two independently functional 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {parts.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 4th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Anchored Navigation\tab \tab Navigate from a fixed reference point that manifester 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {mentally senses.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Aura Sight\tab \tab \tab Can read things in other\rquote s auras.
\par \tab Detect Remote Viewing\tab Know when others spy on manifester remotely.
\par \tab Divination\tab \tab \tab Provides specific advice for proposed actions.
\par \tab Fate of One\tab \tab \tab Reroll a bad roll.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct IV\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Dismiss Ectoplasm\tab \tab Dissipates ectoplasmic targets.
\par \tab Fabricate\tab \tab \tab Transforms raw goods to finished items.
\par \tab Quintessence\tab \tab \tab Collapse a bit of time into a physical substance.
\par \tab Wall of Ectoplasm\tab \tab Create a protective barrier.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Amplified Invisibility\tab \tab Attack once and stay unseen.
\par \tab Inertial Barrier\tab \tab \tab Subject gains damage reduction 10/+5.
\par \tab Mass Concussion\tab \tab Foes take 7d4 damage in 20-ft. radius.
\par \tab Telekinesis\tab \tab \tab Lift or move 25 lb./level at long range.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Dissolving Touch\tab \tab Touch deals 7d6 acid damage.
\par \tab Immovability\tab \tab \tab Manifester is almost impossible to move.
\par \tab Polymorph Self\tab \tab Assume a new form.
\par \tab Psychofeedback\tab \tab Use power points to boost your physical ability modifiers.
\par \tab Natural Armor\tab \tab \tab Gain a +4 natural armor bonus.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Dimensional Anchor\tab \tab Bars extradimensional movement.
\par \tab Dimension Door\tab \tab Teleports manifester and up to 500 lb. a short distance.
\par \tab Dismissal\tab \tab \tab Forces a creature to return to a native plane.
\par \tab Freedom of Movement\tab Move normally despite impediments.
\par Telep
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Domination\tab \tab \tab Subject obeys manifester\rquote s will.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Fatal Attraction\tab \tab Implants death urge in subject.
\par \tab Forced Mindlink\tab \tab Creates mental bond with unwilling subject.
\par \tab Mindwipe\tab \tab \tab Subject\rquote s recent experiences wiped away.
\par \tab Tailor Memory\tab \tab False memory implanted in subject.
\par 
\par 5th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Power Resistance\tab \tab Subject gains PR 12.
\par \tab Recall Agony\tab \tab \tab Foe takes 9d6 damage from painful memory.
\par \tab Sense Psionics\tab \tab \tab Sense psionic powers and effects.
\par \tab True Seeing\tab \tab \tab See all things as they really are.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct V\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Ectoplasmic Armor\tab \tab Subject gains a +10 armor bonus.
\par \tab Ectoplasmic Shambler\tab Foglike predator deals 1 point of damage/round to those it surrounds.
\par \tab Incarnate\tab \tab \tab Make some psionic effects permanent.
\par \tab Major Creation\tab \tab Creates cloth, wood, stone, or metal object.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Brilliant Blast\tab \tab \tab Light blast deals 9d4 damage in 20-ft. radius.
\par \tab Clairtangency\tab \tab \tab Use far hand at any distance.
\par \tab Matter Rearrangement\tab Transmute one metal to another.
\par \tab Psychic Vampire\tab \tab Touch attack drains 2 power points/level from foe, which 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {you gain.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Psymet
\par \tab Adapt Body\tab \tab \tab Adapt manifester\rquote s body to hostile environments.
\par \tab Energy Barrier\tab \tab \tab Convert energy attacks to harmless light.
\par \tab Graft Weapon\tab \tab \tab A weapon becomes a natural part of the manifester.
\par \tab Metamorphosis\tab \tab Take the form of creatures and objects.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Baleful Teleport\tab \tab Destructive teleport deals 9d6 damage.
\par \tab Sending\tab \tab \tab Delivers short message anywhere instantly.
\par \tab Teleport\tab \tab \tab Instantly transports manifester anywhere.
\par \tab Teleport Trigger\tab \tab Predetermined event triggers teleport.
\par Telep
\par \tab Catapsi\tab \tab \tab \tab Psychic static is a drag on power manifestation.
\par \tab Greater Domination\tab \tab Subject obeys manifester\rquote s will.
\par \tab Metaconcert\tab \tab \tab Mental concert of two or more psions increases the total 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {power of the participants.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Mind Probe\tab \tab \tab Discover the subject\rquote s secret thoughts.
\par 
\par 6th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Precognition\tab \tab \tab More in-depth than divination.
\par \tab Remote View Trap\tab \tab Enemy remote viewers take 4d4 damage.
\par \tab Shield of Prudence\tab \tab Gain a +6 insight bonus to AC.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct VI\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Flaming Shroud\tab \tab Encased foe takes 11d6 fire damage.
\par \tab Improved Fabricate\tab \tab Transforms raw goods to finished items..
\par Psykin
\par \tab Ablating\tab \tab \tab Subject is buffered from one negate psionics effect.
\par \tab Disintegrate\tab \tab \tab One creature or object vanishes.
\par \tab Greater Biocurrent\tab \tab Continuous bioelectrical current deals 6d6 electricity 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {damage/round to up to four living creatures.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Null Psionics Field\tab \tab Negates psionics within 10 ft.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Breath of the Dragon\tab \tab Breathe fire for 11d4 damage.
\par \tab Improved Vigor\tab \tab Gain 13 temporary hit points.
\par \tab Suspend Life\tab \tab \tab Manifester\rquote s life functions slow to imperceptibility.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Banishment\tab \tab \tab Banishes extraplanar creatures.
\par \tab Ethereal Jaunt\tab \tab \tab Become ethereal for 1 round/level.
\par \tab Improved Fly\tab \tab \tab Subject flies at speed of 180.
\par \tab Retrieve\tab \tab \tab Teleport to hand an item the manifester can see.
\par \tab Trace Teleport\tab \tab \tab Learn origin or goal of subject\rquote s teleport.
\par Telep
\par \tab Aura Alteration\tab \tab Subject seems something it is not.
\par \tab Mass Suggestion\tab \tab Many targets follow suggested action.
\par \tab Mind Switch\tab \tab \tab Switch minds with another.
\par 
\par 7th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Emulate Power\tab \tab Manifest any psionic power of 6th level or lower.
\par \tab Improved Anchored Navigation\tab Navigate from a fixed point even across planar 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li3600\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin3600\itap0 {boundaries.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Sequester\tab \tab \tab Subject invisible to sight and remote viewing.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct VII\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Contingency\tab \tab \tab Sets trigger condition for another power.
\par \tab Mass Cocoon\tab \tab \tab Encapsulate foes so they can\rquote t move.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Divert Teleport\tab \tab Choose destination for another\rquote s teleport.
\par \tab Improved Telekinesis\tab \tab Lift or move 100 lb./level at long range.
\par \tab Power Turning\tab \tab Reflect 1d4+6 power levels back on manifester.
\par \tab Reddopsi\tab \tab \tab Foe\rquote s power rebounds on her.
\par \tab True Concussion\tab \tab Pummels foe for 13d6 damage.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Energy Conversion\tab \tab Convert energy attacks to one ray energy attack of 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {manifester\rquote s own.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Fission\tab \tab \tab \tab Briefly duplicate self.
\par \tab Oak Body\tab \tab \tab Body becomes living wood.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Divert Teleport\tab \tab Choose destination for another\rquote s teleport.
\par \tab Etherealness\tab \tab \tab Travel to the Ethereal Plane with companions.
\par \tab Phase Door\tab \tab \tab Invisible passage through wood or stone.
\par \tab Plane Shift\tab \tab \tab Up to eight subjects travel to another plane.
\par \tab Teleport Without Error\tab Instantly transports manifester anywhere with no off-target 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {arrival.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Telep
\par \tab Insanity\tab \tab \tab Subject is permanently confused.
\par \tab Mass Domination\tab \tab Many targets subject to manifester\rquote s will.
\par \tab Ultrablast\tab \tab \tab Mental scream deals 13d4 damage to all within 15 ft.
\par 
\par 8th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Foresight\tab \tab \tab Psionic senses warn of impending danger.
\par \tab Hypercognition\tab \tab Deduce almost anything.
\par \tab Recall Death\tab \tab \tab Foe vividly recalls its future death and dies.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct VIII\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Mind Store\tab \tab \tab Store the manifester\rquote s personality against future need.
\par \tab True Creation\tab \tab \tab Creates permanent cloth, wood, stone, or metal objects.
\par Psykin
\par \tab Improved Clairtangency\tab Use telekinesis at any distance.
\par \tab Matter Manipulation\tab \tab Increase or decrease an object\rquote s base hardness by 5.
\par \tab Telekinetic Sphere\tab \tab Mobile force globe protects one subject.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Hypercognition\tab \tab Deduce almost anything.
\par \tab Iron Body\tab \tab \tab Body becomes living iron.
\par \tab Shadow Body\tab \tab \tab Become a living shadow (not the creature).
\par Psyport
\par \tab Dream Travel\tab \tab \tab Travel to other places through dreams.
\par \tab Improved Etherealness\tab Stay ethereal longer.
\par \tab Teleportation Circle\tab \tab Circle teleports any creature inside to designated spot.
\par \tab Temporal Acceleration\tab Time frame accelerates for 2 rounds.
\par Telep
\par \tab Mind Blank\tab \tab \tab Subject immune to mental/emotional effects, scrying, and 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {remote viewing.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Mind Seed\tab \tab \tab Subject slowly becomes the manifester.
\par \tab True Domination\tab \tab Dominated subjects less likely to defy the manifester\rquote s will.
\par 
\par 9th-LEVEL PSION POWERS
\par Clasen
\par \tab Greater Emulation\tab \tab Manifest any psionic power of 8th level or lower.
\par \tab Metafaculty\tab \tab \tab Subject cannot hide name or location from manifester.
\par Metcre
\par \tab Astral Construct IX\tab \tab Creates astral construct to fight for the manifester.
\par \tab Genesis\tab \tab \tab Instigate a new demiplane in the Astral Plane.
\par Psykin
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Detonation\tab \tab \tab Pummels foe for 17d6 damage.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Dissolution\tab \tab \tab Disintegrate very large objects or creatures.
\par \tab True Telekinesis\tab \tab Lift or move 500 lb./level at long range.
\par Psymet
\par \tab Affinity Field\tab \tab \tab Effects that affect manifester also affect others.
\par \tab Shapechange\tab \tab \tab Become any creature, change forms once/round.
\par \tab True Metabolism\tab \tab Regenerate 10 points/round for 1 minute.
\par Psyport
\par \tab Astral Projection\tab \tab Projects manifester and friends into Astral Plane.
\par \tab Probability Travel\tab \tab Manifester and friends physically enter Astral Plane.
\par \tab Temporal Velocity\tab \tab Time frame accelerates for 3d4 rounds.
\par \tab Time Regression\tab \tab Relive the last 1d4+1 rounds.
\par Telep
\par \tab Apopsi\tab \tab \tab \tab Delete the psionic power of another.
\par \tab Confidante\tab \tab \tab Manifester and another share a permanent mental bond.
\par \tab Microcosm\tab \tab \tab Subject explores imaginary world at the expense of the real 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {one.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Monster Domination\tab \tab Controls any creature, but for less time.
\par \tab Psychic Chirurgery\tab \tab Repair psychic damage and impart knowledge of new 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2880\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {powers.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Thrall\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject is manifester\rquote s slave forever.
\par 
\par }{\i Psychic Warrior Powers
\par }{0-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS (TALENTS)
\par Bolt\tab \tab \tab \tab Create a short-lived bolt, arrow, or bullet. (Int)
\par Burst\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject\rquote s speed improves by 10 ft. for 1 round. (Dex)
\par Catfall\tab \tab \tab \tab Recover well from a fall. (Dex)
\par Control Shadow\tab \tab Control a normal shadow like a puppet. (Con)
\par Daze\tab \tab \tab \tab Creature loses next action. (Cha)
\par Detect Psionics\tab \tab Detect the presence of psionic activity. (Wix)
\par Distract\tab \tab \tab Subject\rquote s mind wanders, imparting a \endash 1 penalty on some actions. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {(Cha)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Elfsight\tab \tab \tab Manifester has low-light vision. (Str)
\par Far Punch\tab \tab \tab Telekinetic punch deals 1 damage. (Con)
\par Float\tab \tab \tab \tab Buoy a subject in water or other liquid. (Dex)
\par Know Direction\tab \tab Know which way is north. (Wis)
\par Talons\tab \tab \tab \tab Unarmed attacks deal +1 damage. (Str)
\par Valor\tab \tab \tab \tab Gain a +1 morale bonus on manifester\rquote s saving throw. (Str)
\par Verve\tab \tab \tab \tab Gain 1 temporary hit point. (Str)
\par 
\par 1st-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Biofeedback\tab \tab \tab Self-control allows manifester to take some damage as subdual 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {damage. (Str)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Bite of the Wolf\tab \tab Bite attack deals 1d8 damage. (Str)
\par Call Weaponry\tab \tab Never lack for a weapon. (Dex)
\par Combat Precognition\tab \tab Gain a +1 insight bonus to AC. (Wis)
\par Compression\tab \tab \tab Shrink 10%/level (max 50%). (Str)
\par Expanded Vision\tab \tab Wider vision allows manifester to see more. (Wis)
\par Feel Light\tab \tab \tab Use tactile sensation to see. (Str)
\par Feel Sound\tab \tab \tab Use tactile sensation to hear. (Str)
\par Hear Light\tab \tab \tab Use auditory sensation to see. (Str)
\par Hustle\tab \tab \tab \tab Gain one extra partial action. (Str)
\par Lesser Metaphysical Weapon\tab Weapon gains a +1 bonus. (Int)
\par Minor Creation\tab \tab Creates one cloth or wood object. (Int)
\par See Sound\tab \tab \tab You use visual sensation to hear. (Str)
\par Skate\tab \tab \tab \tab Subject slides (skillfully) along ground as if on ice (Dex)
\par Vigor\tab \tab \tab \tab Gain 3 temporary hit points. (Str)
\par 
\par 2nd-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Animal Affinity\tab \tab Possess one ability score of a chosen animal. (Str)
\par Body Equilibrium\tab \tab Can walk on nonsolid surfaces. (Str)
\par Claws of the Bear\tab \tab Unarmed attack deals 1d12 damage. (Str)
\par Combat Prescience\tab \tab Gain a +2 insight bonus on your attack roll. (Wis)
\par Darkvision\tab \tab \tab Can see in the dark. (Wis)
\par Expansion\tab \tab \tab Grow +10%/level (max +100%). (Str)
\par Levitate\tab \tab \tab Subject moves up and down at manifester\rquote s direction. (Dex)
\par Painful Touch\tab \tab \tab Unarmed attacks deal an extra 1d6 subdual damage. (Str)
\par Sudden Minor Creation\tab Quickly create cloth or wood object. (Int)
\par Vigilance\tab \tab \tab See through mists, murk, and darkness. (Wis)
\par 
\par 3rd-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Bite of the Tiger\tab \tab Bite attack deals 2d8 damage. (Str)
\par Claws of the Vampire\tab \tab Unarmed attack deals 1d8 damage. You heal the same amount. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {(Str)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Danger Sense\tab \tab \tab Gain a +4 bonus against traps. (Wis)
\par Displacement\tab \tab \tab Attacks miss manifester 50% of the time. (Str)
\par Improved Biofeedback\tab Take charge of body\rquote s damage. (Str)
\par Metaphysical Weapon\tab \tab Weapon gains a +3 bonus. (Int)
\par Prowess\tab \tab \tab Manifester may take one extra attack of opportunity. (Wis)
\par Ubiquitous Vision\tab \tab Manifester has all-around vision. (Wis)
\par 
\par 4th-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Dimension Door\tab \tab Teleports manifester and up to 500 lb. short distances. (Dex)
\par Dissolving Touch\tab \tab Touch deals 7d6 acid damage. (Str)
\par Immovability\tab \tab \tab Manifester is almost impossible to move. (Str)
\par Inertial Barrier\tab \tab \tab Subject gains damage reduction 10/+5. (Con)
\par Polymorph Self\tab \tab Assume a new form. (Str)
\par Psychofeedback\tab \tab Use power points to boost your physical ability modifiers.
\par Steadfast Perception\tab \tab Gain a +4 bonus against illusions, +2 bonus on Spot and Search 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {checks. (Wis)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Telekinesis\tab \tab \tab Lift or move 25 lb./level at long range. (Con)
\par 
\par 5th-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Adamant Grasp\tab \tab Gain a +10 bonus on your grapple checks. (Str)
\par Adapt Body\tab \tab \tab Adapt manifester\rquote s body to hostile environments. (Str)
\par Catapsi\tab \tab \tab \tab Psychic static is a drag on power manifestation. (Cha)
\par Ectoplasmic Armor\tab \tab Subject gains a +10 armor bonus. (Int)
\par Energy Barrier\tab \tab \tab Convert energy attacks to harmless light. (Str)
\par Graft Weapon\tab \tab \tab A weapon becomes a natural part of the manifester. (Str)
\par Psychic Vampire\tab \tab Touch attack drains 2 power points/level from foe, which 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {manifester gains. (Con)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 6th-LEVEL PSYCHIC WARRIOR POWERS
\par Ablating\tab \tab \tab Subject is buffered from one negate psionics effect. (Con)
\par Breath of the Dragon\tab \tab Breathe fire for 11d4 damage. (Str)
\par Call Cohort\tab \tab \tab Teleport cohort to manifester\rquote s location. (Dex)
\par Ethereal Jaunt\tab \tab \tab Become ethereal for 1 round/level. (Dex)
\par Improved Vigor\tab \tab Gain 13 temporary hit points. (Str)
\par Shield of Prudence\tab \tab Gain a +6 insight bonus to AC. (Wis)
\par Suspend Life\tab \tab \tab Manifester\rquote s life functions slow to imperceptibility. (Str)
\par 
\par 
\par POWER FORMAT
\par Each power description follows the same format.
\par 
\par NAME
\par This is the name by which the power is generally known. 
\par DISCIPLINE AND DESCRIPTORS
\par This is the discipline to which the power belongs. Any descriptors that apply are given here [in brackets].
\par \tab Disciplines: Clairsentience, Metacreativity, Psychokinesis, Psychometabolism, Psychoportation, and Telepathy. The key ability score for each discipline is given (in parentheses) for ease of calculating target DCs.
\par \tab Descriptors: Acid, chaotic, charm*, cold, compulsion*, darkness, death, electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, light, mind-affecting, sonic, and teleportation.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {*}{\cf0 Compulsion and charm are treated as subschools of the Enc}{\cf0 hantment school of magic }{\cf0 but are used as descriptors here, to the same effect.}{
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {LEVEL
\par This is the strength level of the power, ranging from 0-level (talents) through 9th level (the most powerful). This entry notes which classes can manifest this power. A power\rquote s level affects the DC for any saving throw allowed against the power.

\par DISPLAY
\par This gives the type of display that accompanies manifestation of the power.
\par \tab Displays: Au (Audible), Ma (Material), Me (Mental), Ol (Olfactory), and Vi (Visible). 
\par MANIFESTATION TIME
\par The time required to manifest the power. 
\par RANGE
\par The maximum distance from the manifester at which the power can affect a target. 
\par TARGET OR TARGETS/EFFECT/AREA
\par The number of creatures, dimensions, volume, weight, and so on, that the power affects. If the target is the manifester, he or she does not receive a saving throw, and power resistance does not apply.
\par DURATION
\par How long the power lasts. 
\par SAVING THROW
\par Whether a power allows a saving throw, what type of saving throw it is, and the effect of a successful saving throw.
\par POWER RESISTANCE
\par Whether power resistance (PR), a special defensive ability on par with spell resistance, resists the power. 
\par POWER POINTS
\par The power\rquote s cost to manifest. Talents (0-level powers) cost 1 power point to manifest after a character uses up his or her allotted free manifestations per day.
\par DESCRIPTIVE TEXT
\par This portion of the power description details what the power does and how it works. If one of the previous portions of the description included \'93(see text),\'94 this is where the explanation is found. 
\par }}