{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f72\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f73\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}
{\f75\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f76\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f79\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}
{\f248\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f249\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f251\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f252\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f253\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f254\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f255\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon26 \snext15 Hanging Indent (Core Body);}{\s16\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\keep\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon26 \snext16 Psychic War Powers;}{\s17\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext17 Skil/Rank/Abil/Etc. Tab;}{\s18\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon22 \snext18 Skill/Rank/Ability Tabs;}{\s19\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon22 \snext19 Table Shaded Line;}{\s20\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon15 \snext20 Monster stats;}{\s21\qj \fi-900\li1080\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext21 Powers List;}{\s22\ql \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext22 Table Body;}{\s23\ql \fi-180\li180\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext23 
Normal1;}{\s24\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext24 Legal Page Text;}{\s25\ql \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext25 Running Head-LEFT;}{\s26\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext26 
Hanging bullet;}{\s27\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon28 \snext27 H4;}{\s28\ql \li0\ri0\sb200\sl-200\slmult0
\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon29 \snext28 H3;}{\s29\qr \li0\ri0\sb400\sl-200\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon32 \snext29 H2;}{\s30\qr \li0\ri0\sl-400\slmult0\keep\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext30 H1;}{
\s31\qc \li0\ri0\sl-480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext31 FOLIO;}{\s32\qj \li180\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin180\itap0 
\f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext32 Core Body;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext33 CHAPTER NUMBER;}{
\s34\qc \li0\ri0\sl-200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f5\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext34 CHAPTER NAME;}{\s35\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext35 Body Text;}{\s36\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \cbpat9 \f27\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext36 Document Map;}}
{\info{\title  T11835_620_PsiHdbkCh5.qxd}{\author Andrew Smith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy21\hr11\min18}{\revtim\yr2003\mo3\dy3\hr14\min34}{\version164}{\edmins206}{\nofpages37}{\nofwords12764}{\nofchars-32766}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \psz1\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\i0\ul 
\par 
\par PSIONIC POWERS (I-P)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Identify
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Me, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 8 hours
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Up to 1 touched object per level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 1
\par This power determines the single most basic function of a psionic item, including how to activate that function (if appropriate), and how many charges are left (if any). 
\par If a psionic item has multiple different functions that are equally basic, identify determines the lowest-level function. If these functions are also of equal level, the DM decides randomly which is identified.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Immovability
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 4/Psychic Warrior 4
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Power Points: 7
\par The manifester is almost impossible to move. The character\rquote s weight does not vary; instead, he or she mentally attaches him or herself to the underlying fabric of the plane. Thus, the character could conceivably anchor him or herself
 in midair. The character opposes any attempt to be moved by a Strength check modified by a bonus equal to three times the character\rquote s manifester level. Once immovable, the character can\rquote 
t move to a new location unless he or she first dismisses the power or its duration expires.
\par While the character is immovable, he or she loses all Dexterity bonuses to AC. Neither can the character attack or make any other movement. However, the character\rquote s anchored body gains damage reduction 20/+3.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Anchored Navigation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Ol, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 13
\par While the duration lasts, the manifester is aware of his or her exact distance and route (physical or psychoportive) back to a fixed starting point. The manifester must designate the \'93anchored\'94
 starting point when first manifesting the power. To designate other anchored starting points, the manifester must manifest additional anchored navigation powers.
\par This power is useful for all Psychoportation powers (and in the minimum time for the method of travel utilized). Moreover, this power allows normal telepathic communication with any receptive beings within a 60-foot radius of the fixed poin
t, regardless of distance. Use of anchored navigation extends across all planar boundaries.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Biofeedback
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 3/Psychic Warrior 3
\par Display: Vi, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Power Points: 5
\par The manifester takes a portion of any attack that deals damage as points of subdual damage equal to twice his or her Strength modifier. This power is not retroactive to wounds received prior to manifesting biofeedback.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Clairtangency
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Vi, Au, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: See text
\par Area: See text
\par Duration: Up to 1 minute/level (see text) (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 15
\par The manifester can emulate telekinesis at any distance, simultaneously emulating clairaudience/clairvoyance. The manifester can concentrate upon some locale and see almost as if he or she were there. Distance is not a factor, but the locale must be known
\emdash a place familiar to the manifester or an obvious one. Once the manifester is gazing upon a particular location, he or she may use an effect similar to telekinesis (the manifester doesn\rquote t need to manifest the power). Improved clairtangency
\rquote s duration is up to 1 minute/level when the telekinesis effect is used as a sustained force, but it expires immediately after a violent thrust.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Etherealness
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 8 Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch (see text)
\par Targets: You and one other touched creature/3 levels
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 15
\par The manifester and other creatures joined by linked hands (along with their equipment) become ethereal. Besides him or herself, the manifester can bring 
one creature per three manifester levels to the Ethereal Plane. Once ethereal, the creatures need not stay together. When the power expires, all affected creatures in the Ethereal Plane return to material existence.
\par Note: An ethereal creature is invisible,
 incorporeal, and capable of moving in any direction, even up or down (albeit at half normal speed). As an incorporeal creature, the character can move through solid objects, including living creatures. An ethereal creature can see and hear the Material P
l
ane, but everything looks gray and insubstantial. Sight and hearing onto the Material Plane are limited to 60 feet. Force effects and magical abjurations affect the character normally. Their effects extend onto the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, 
but not vice versa. An ethereal creature can\rquote 
t attack material creatures, and powers manifest while ethereal affect only other ethereal things. Certain material creatures or objects have attacks or effects that work on the Ethereal Plane. By contrast, treat
 other ethereal creatures and ethereal objects as if they had become material.
\par If the power ends and creatures become material while inside a material object, they are shunted off to the nearest open space and suffer 1d6 points of damage per 5 feet so traveled.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Fabricate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: See text
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: Up to 10 cubic yd./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 11
\par The manifester converts material of one sort into a product that is of the same material. Creatures and psionic or magic items cannot be created or altered by fabricate. The quality of items made by this power is commensurate with the quality of material 
used as the basis for the new fabrication. If the character works with a mineral, the target is reduced to 10 cubic feet per manifester level instead of 10 cubic yards.
\par The character must make an appropriate Craft check to fabricate articles requiring a high degree of craftsmanship (jewelry, swords, glass, crystal, and so on).
\par Manifesting requires 1 full round per cubic yard (or cubic foot) of material to be affected by the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Fly
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Power Points: 11
\par The power\rquote s subject can fly at a speed of 180 feet (150 feet if the creature wears medium or heavy armor). The subject can fly up at half speed and descend at double speed. The flying subject\rquote 
s maneuverability is good. Using the fly power requires as much concentration as walking, so the subject can attack or manifest powers normally. The subject of fly can char
ge but not run, and it cannot carry aloft more weight than its maximum load, plus any armor it wears.
\par Should the duration expire while the subject is still aloft, the psionic effect fails slowly. The subject drops 60 feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it re
aches the ground in this time, it is safe. If not, it falls the rest of the distance (falling damage is 1d6 per 10 feet of fall). Since negating a power effectively ends it, the subject falls immediately if fly is negated.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Telekinesis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Vi 
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Target or Targets: See text
\par Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes/level, or instantaneous (see text)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (object) (see text)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (object) (see text)
\par Power Points: 13
\par The manifester moves objects or creatures by concentrating on them. The power can provide either a gentle, sustained force or a single short, violent thrust (manifester\rquote s choice).
\par Sustained Force: 
A sustained force moves a creature or object weighing up to 100 pounds per manifester level up to 50 feet per round. A creature can negate the effect against itself or against an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with power resistance.

\par Thi
s version of the power lasts up to 1 round per manifester level, but it ends if the manifester ceases concentration. The weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or both. An object cannot be moved beyond the range of the power. The power ends if the 
object is forced beyond the range. If the manifester ceases concentration for any reason, the object falls or stops.
\par An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand. The manifester might even be able to untie simple knots, though fine actions such as these require Intelligence checks against a DC set by the DM.
\par Violent Thrust: Alternatively, the telekinetic power can be expended in a single round. The manifester can hurl one or more objects or creatures that are within range and all within 1
0 feet of each other toward any target within 10 feet/level of all the objects. A manifester can hurl up to a total weight of 25 pounds per manifester level.
\par The manifester must succeed at attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target 
with the items, using his or her base attack plus Intelligence modifier. Weapons cause standard damage (with no Strength bonus). Other objects cause damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds (for less dangerous objects) to 1d6 points of damage per 25 poun
ds for hard, dense objects.
\par Creatures who fall within the weight capacity of the power can be hurled, but they are allowed Will saves to negate the effect, as are those whose held possessions are targeted by the power. If creatures are telekinetically hurle
d against solid surfaces, they take damage as if they had fallen 60 feet (6d6 points).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Improved Vigor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 6/Psichic Warrior 6
\par Display: Ma, Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Power Points: 11
\par The manifester gains 3 temporary hit points per manifester level (maximum 60 hit points).  These hit points do not stack with temporary hit points from other sources or with additional uses of vigor.
\par 
\par }{\i Incarnate
\par }{Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 2 rounds
\par Range: See text
\par Target, Effect, or Area: See text
\par Duration: Permanent (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 9, XP cost
\par The manifester invests other powers with self-sustaini
ng energy so that they become permanent. The manifester must be at least the minimum level required to manifest the power. This power has no effect on powers that already create a permanent effect. A character can\rquote 
t incarnate a power with no duration or a duration of instantaneous. A character can\rquote 
t incarnate a power that has an XP cost of its own, nor can a character incarnate a power of level 6 or higher. The manifester must expend XP when manifesting this power. A character can never expend so much XP th
at doing so would drop the character one or more levels (though a character could forgo gaining a level in order to incarnate a particularly costly power). The XP costs vary depending on the target.
\par Incarnate can be negated by a higher-level psion who also manifests incarnate or by use of psychic chirurgery.
\par The DM may not allow some powers to become permanent through incarnate. The manifester knows before attempting to incarnate a power if it can or cannot be made permanent. 
\par XP Cost: To make a power permanent in regard to the manifester\rquote s self, he or she must expend a number of XP equal to the power\rquote 
s level x 300. To make a power permanent in regard to another creature, the manifester must expend a number of XP equal to the power\rquote s level x 600. To make a p
ower permanent on an object or location, the manifester must expend a number of XP equal to the power\rquote s level x 900.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inertial Barrier
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 4/Psychic Warrior 4
\par Display: Au, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Power Points: 7
\par The subject gains damage reduction 10/+5. Once the power has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per m
anifester level (maximum 150 points), it is discharged. Inertial barrier also absorbs up to half the damage from a fall. Damage absorbed from a fall counts toward discharging the effect. The psychokinetic barrier delays the effects of gases in the atmosph
ere for 2d4 rounds.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inflict Pain
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 2
\par Display: Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 3
\par This telepathic strike deals 3d6 points of damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Inkling
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 0
\par Display: Ol, Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Power Points: 1
\par An inkling can tell whether a particular action will bring good or bad results for the manifester in the immediate future. 
\par The base chance for receiving a meaningful reply is 50%, plus 1% per manifester level; the DM makes the roll secretly. The DM may determine t
hat the question is so straightforward that a successful result is automatic, or so vague as to have no chance of success. If the inkling succeeds, the manifester gets one of four results:
\par \tab \'93Weal\'94 (if the action will probably bring good results).
\par \tab \'93Woe\'94 (for bad results).
\par \tab \'93Weal and woe\'94 (for both).
\par \tab \'93Nothing\'94 (for actions that don\rquote t have especially good or bad results).
\par If the power fails, the manifester gets the \'93nothing\'94 result. A psion who gets the \'93nothing\'94 result has no way to tell whether it resulted from a failed or successful inkling.
\par The inkling can see into the future only about half an hour, so anything that might happen after that does not affect the inkling. Thus, it might miss the long-term consequences of the contemplated action. All inklings
 manifested by the same person about the same action use the same die roll result as the first inkling.
\par Note: A character may only manifest inkling a number of times per day equal to his or her Wisdom modifier +1, regardless of further payment of power points or number of free manifestations left in the day. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Insanity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Compulsion, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 13
\par Creatures affected by this power are permanently insane and constantly behave randomly, as indicated on the follow table:
\par \tab d10 roll\tab Action
\par \tab 1\tab \tab Wander away for 1 minute (unless prevented)
\par \tab 2\endash 6\tab \tab Do nothing for 1 round
\par \tab 7\endash 9 \tab \tab Attack nearest creature for 1 round
\par \tab 10\tab \tab Act normally for 1 round
\par Except on a result of 1, roll again each round to see what the subject does that round. Wandering creatures leave the scene as if uninterested. Attackers ar
e not at any special advantage when attacking them. Actions are checked at the beginning of each creature\rquote s turn. Any insane creature that is attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next turn.
\par Only psychic chirurgery and other extreme measures can restore the subject\rquote s sanity.
\par 
\par }{\i Intrusive Sense Link
\par }{Telepathy (Cha) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 2
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 3
\par The subject creatuse senses what the manifester senses.  Only one sense is linked, and the manifester may not switch between senses with the same manifestation.  Once sense link is manifested
, the link persists even if the subject creature moves out of the original manifestation range (but the link does not work across planes). The manifester does not control the creature, nor can the manifester communicate with it via this power. 
\par The manifester must concentrate to access the sense link. If he or she does not concentrate, that sense returns to the manifester\rquote s own immediate surroundings. The powers of the manifester\rquote 
s senses could be enhanced by other powers or items, if desired, allowing the subject creature the same enhanced sense. A successful negate psionics manifested on the manifester or the linked creature ends the power. With respect to the subject creature
\rquote s own blindness, deafness, and so on, the manifester is an independent sensory organ. When linked to the manifester, the subject may make his or her own perception checks, such as Spot and Listen, regardless of the manifester\rquote 
s Spot and Listen results, if any.
\par This power can be used to damage the subject.  For example, if the manifester links taste and then eats something particularly foul (DM\rquote 
s discretion), the subject creature must make another Will save against the original DC or be stunned for 1 round. If the manifester eats something that causes damage, the subject creature takes 
no damage but must make a saving throw against the original DC or be stunned for 1d2 rounds. Likewise, if the manifester links sight and is subject to a gaze attack, so is the subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Invisibility
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 2
\par Display: None
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal or touch
\par Target: You or a creature or object weighing no more than 100 lb./level
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Power Points: 3
\par The 
creature or object touched vanishes from sight, even from darkvision. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. If a character manifests the power on someone else, neither the character nor allies can see the subject, unless th
ey can normally see invisible things or employ psionics to do so.
\par Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing or pouches worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisib
le, although a source of light can become so. Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from her becomes visible.
\par The subject is not magically silenced, and certain other conditions can render the recipient detectable. The power ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this power, an \'93attack\'94
 includes any power targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character\rquote s perceptions.) Actions directe
d at unattended objects do not negate the power. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. Note that powers that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
\par An invisible attacker gains a +2 bonus on his or her attack roll (for the single attack, either melee or ranged, that he or she is allowed before becoming visible), and the defender against such an attack loses any Dexterity bonus to Armor Class.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Invisibility Purge
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Power Points: 5
\par The manifester is surrounded with a sphere with a radius of 5 feet per manifester level that negates all forms of invisibility. Anything invisible becomes visible while in the area.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Iron Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Power Points: 15
\par This power transforms the manifester\rquote s body into living iron.
\par The manifester gains damage reduction 50/+3. He or she is immune to blindness, critical hits, damage to ability sco
res (except if that damage comes as a result of psionic combat), deafness, disease, drowning, poison, stunning, and all powers, spells, or attacks that affect his or her physiology or respiration, because you have no physiology or respiration while this p
ower is in effect. The manifester only suffers half damage from acid and fire of all kinds. However, he or she also becomes vulnerable to all special attacks that affect iron golems.
\par The manifester gains a +6 enhancement bonus to his or her Strength score, but suffers a \endash 
6 enhancement penalty to Dexterity as well (to a minimum Dexterity score of 1), and his or her speed is reduced to half normal. The manifester cannot drink (and thus can\rquote t use potions), nor play wind instruments.
\par The manifester\rquote s unarmed attacks deal 1d6 points of normal damage, and the character is considered \'93armed\'94 when making unarmed attacks (a Small manifester instead deals 1d4 points of damage).
\par The character\rquote s weight increases by a factor of 10, causing him or her to sink in water. However, the charater could survive the crushing pressure and lack of air at the bottom of the ocean, while the power lasts.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 2
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level
\par Duration: Instantaneous (see text)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 3
\par The knock power opens stuck, barred, locked, or psionically locked doors (and magically held and arc
ane locked doors). It opens secret doors, as well as locked or trick-opening boxes or chests. It also loosens welds, shackles, or chains (provided they serve to hold closures shut). If used to open a psionically locked door, the power does not remove the 
p
sionic lock but simply suspends its functioning for 10 minutes. In all other cases, the door does not relock itself or becomes stuck again on its own. Knock does not raise barred gates or similar impediments, nor does it affect ropes, vines, and the like.
 Note that the effect is limited by the area. Each power can undo up to two means of preventing egress through a portal. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Know Direction
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 0/Psychic Warrior 0
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester instantly knows which way is north. If in a place where magnetic field lines do not specify north, the manifester may know the direction of a preeminent landmark, at the DM\rquote s discretion. The charac
ter only knows the direction of north immediately after manifesting this power. Subsequent movement could confuse matters once again.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Know Location
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester generally knows where he or she is. The power reveals general information about the character\rquote s location. The information is usually no more detailed than a summary that locates you according to a promin
ent local landmark.  Subsequent movement could confuse matters once again.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Body Adjustment
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Power Points: 3
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester cures him or herself of 1d8 points of damage.
\par Alternatively, the manifester can gain a +1 bonus on his or her next Fortitude save against poison or disease. 
\par Finally, a character can use body adjustment to heal 1 points of temporary ability damage. The manifester doesn\rquote t gain all three benefits from a single manifestation of this power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Concussion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One individual
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude half
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 1
\par The target is pummeled with for 1d6 points of \- damage. The manifester may choose to have the power deal an equal amount of subdual damage instead.
\par Lesser Concussion always affects a subject within range that the manifester can see, even if the subject is in melee or has partial cover or concealment. Inanimate objects cannot be damaged by the power.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Domination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Compulsion, Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One humanoid of Medium-size or smaller
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 7
\par The manifester can control the actions of any humanoid of Medium-size or smaller with who the manifester shares a common language. The manifester establishes a telepathic link with the subject\rquote 
s mind.  The manifester can generally force the subject to perform as he or she desires, within the limits of the subject\rquote s abilities. The manifester knows what the subject is experiencing but does not receive direct sensory input from him or her.

\par Subjects resist this control, and those forced to take actions against 
their natures receive a new saving throw with a bonus of +1 to +4, depending on the type of action required. Obviously self-destructive orders are not carried out. Once control is established, the range at which it can be exercised is unlimited, as long a
s the manifester and subject are on the same plane. The manifester need not see the subject to control it.
\par Protection from evil or a similar spell or power can prevent the manifester from exercising control or using the telepathic link while the subject is so warded, but it does not prevent the establishment of domination or negate it.
\par 
\par }{\i Lesser Metaphysical Weapon
\par }{Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 1/Psychic Warrior 1
\par Display Vi (see text)
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One weapon or fifty projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of manifestation)
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Power Points: 1
\par A weapon gains a +1 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls. The enhanced weapon glows with pale radiance (not sufficient to provide illumination). An enhancement bonus does not stack with a masterwork weapon\rquote s +1 bonus on attacks.
\par Alternatively, the power can affect up to fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projectiles must all be of the same type, and they have to be together in one group. Projectiles (but not thrown weapons) lose their enhancement when used.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Mindlink
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: You and one other creature who is initially no more than 30 ft. away
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester forges a telepathic bond with another creature, which must have an Intelligence score of 6 or higher. The bond can be established only with a willing subject, who therefore receives no saving throw and gains no benefit from power resistance
.
 The manifester can communicate telepathically through the bond even if he or she does not share a common language. No special power or influence is established as a result of the bond. Once the bond is formed, it works over any distance (although not fro
m one plane to another).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Lesser Natural Armor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 0
\par Display: Ol, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester\rquote s skin grows thick ridges, providing a +1 natural armor bonus to AC. Unlike mundane armor, natural armor entails no armor check penalty or speed reduction.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Levitate
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 2/Psychic Warrior 2
\par Display: Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal or close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: You or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level)
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 3
\par Levitate allows the manifester to move him or herself, another creature, or 
an object up and down as the manifester wishes. A creature must be willing to be levitated, and an object must be unattended or possessed by a willing creature. The manifester can mentally direct the recipient to move up or down up to 20 feet each round; 
doing so is a move-equivalent action. The manifester cannot move the recipient horizontally, but the recipient push or pull themselves along surfaces (generally at half its base speed).
\par A levitating creature who attacks with a melee or ranged weapon finds him or herself increasingly unstable; the first attack has an attack roll penalty of \endash 1, the second \endash 2, and so on, up to a maximum penalty of \endash 
5. A full round spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again at \endash 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Major Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Effect: An unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving plant matter, up to 1 cu. ft./level
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 9
\par The manifester creates a nonmagical, nonpsionic, unattended object of nonliving, vegetable or mineral matter. The volume of the item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per manifester level. The manifester must succeed at an appropriate skill check to
 make a complex item.
\par Attempting to use any created object as a material component in a spell causes the spell to fail.
\par The duration of the created item varies with its relative hardness and rarity:
\par Hardness and Rarity
\par Examples\tab \tab \tab Duration
\par Vegetable matter\tab \tab 2 hours/level
\par Stone, crystal, base metals\tab 1 hour/level
\par Precious metals\tab \tab 20 minutes/level
\par Gems\tab \tab \tab \tab 10 minutes/level
\par Mithral\tab \tab \tab \tab 2 rounds/level
\par Adamantine\tab \tab \tab 1 round/level
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Cocoon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: A 10-ft. cube-sized cocoon
\par Duration: 2 hours/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 13
\par This power cocoons several creatures (or a single large creature that fits in a 10-foot cube) in a mass of writhing, tightening ectoplasm.  The power fails if the subject cannot fit inside the area.  The subject can still breathe but is otherwise helpless
, being unable to see or take any physical actions. The subject cannot speak because the ectoplasmic strands muffle sounds, but the subject\rquote 
s nostrils are clear. The subject can execute purely mental actions (such as manifesting powers). The writhing, regen
erating nature of the cocoon prevents its occupant from making a physical bid for escape. Teleport and other forms of travel provide a means of escape, but the cocoon extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel. The mass cocoon resists negat
e psionics, but it can be disintegrated or destroyed through brute force (it has hardness 25 and 100 hit points).  
\par 
\par }{\i Mass Concussion
\par }{Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 4
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level)
\par Area: 20-ft. radius sphere
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 7
\par All creatures and objects within the area are pummled for 7d4 points of damage. The manifester may choose to have the power deal an equal amount of subdual damage instead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mass Domination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Compulsion, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 13
\par The manifester can control the actions of any humanoids of Medium-size or smaller, regardless of language. The manifester establishes a telepathic link with the subjects\rquote 
 mind. The manifester can generally force the subjects to perform as he or she desires, within the limits of the subjects\rquote 
 abilities.  The manifester can give different directions to different creatures. The manifester knows what the subjects are experiencing but does not receive direct sensory input from them.
\par Subjects resist this control, and those forced to take actions against their natures receive a new saving throw with a bonus of +1 to +4, depending on the type of action required. Obviously self-dest
ructive orders are not carried out. Once control is established, the range at which it can be exercised is unlimited, as long as the manifester and subjects are on the same plane. The manifester need not see the subjects to control it.
\par Protection from evil or a similar spell or power can prevent the manifester from exercising control or using the telepathic link over a subject so warded, but it does not prevent the establishment of domination or negate it.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par Mass Suggestion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Compulsion, Mind-Affecting, Language-Dependent]
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 1 hour/level or until completed
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 11
\par The manifester influences the actions of the subject creatures by suggesting a course of action (limited to a sentence or two). The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the action sound 
reasonable. Asking the creatures to do some other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect of the power. The suggested course of action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested action can be completed in a shorter time, the pow
er ends when the subjects finish what they were asked to do. The manifester can instead specify conditions that will trigger a special action during the duration. If the condition is not met before the power expires, the action is not performed.
\par A very reasonable suggestion causes the saving throw to be made with a penalty (such as \endash 1, \endash 2, and so on) at the discretion of the DM.
\par If manifest on multiple creatures, the same suggestion applies to all these creatures.
\par  
\par }{\i Matter Agitation
\par }{Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Au, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: 2 sq. ft. of surface area of an object or creature
\par Duration: Concentration, up to 2 rounds/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester can excite the structure of a nonmagical object, heating it to the point of combustion over time. If the manifester shifts focus to another object, the first object cools and the second object begins to heat up.
\par 1st Round: Readily flammable materials ignite. Skin reddens (1 point of damage).
\par 2nd Round: Wood smolders and smokes, metal becomes hot to the touch, skin blisters (1d4 points of damage), hair smolders, paint shrivels, water boils.
\par 3rd Round: Wood ignites, metal scorches (1d4 points of damage for those holding metallic objects). Skin burns and hair ignites (1d6 points of damage), lead melts.
\par The manifester can continue to agitate a chosen surface area up to the duration of the power if concentration holds, but can only deal a maximum of 1d6 points of damage against a living or undead subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Matter Manipulation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Au, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Area: 1 cu. ft./level of inanimate material
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 15, XP cost
\par The manifester can weaken or strengthen the substance of an object or structure. The power can affect both mundane and magical inanimate material. Weakening an object\rquote s substance
 decreases its hardness and hit points, and strengthening it increases its hardness and hit points. The manifester can increase or decrease an object\rquote 
s hardness by up to 5 from its base hardness. When hardness increases, the object (or portion of an object
) gains 3 hit points per inch of thickness per increased hardness. When hardness decreases, the object (or portion of an object) loses 2 hit points per inch of thickness per decreased hardness (to a minimum of 1 hit point/inch of thickness). A manifester 
can\rquote t decrease the hardness (or the hit points) of an object that already has a hardness of 0. 
\par Working Manipulated Metals: An object or portion thereof whose hardness is decreased or increased is permanently changed. Metal increased to hardness 15 would po
ssess the strength qualities of mithral. Metal manipulated to hardness 20 would share the special characteristics of a weapon or armor forged of adamantine. Hardening adamantine to 25 is possible, but this confers no benefits other than a higher hardness 
and more hit points/inch of thickness. A manifester can also harden or weaken a preforged weapon, armor, or other finished item.
\par XP Cost: The item\rquote s final hardness x100 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Matter Rearrangement
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: Nonmagical metal objects weighing up to a total of 1/10 pound, each no more than 1 inch from another
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 9, XP cost}{\strike 
\par }{The manifester can transmute one metal into another. The power can affect a metal object up to 1/10 pound, or several metal objects whose total weight does not exceed 1/10 pound. In practical terms, 1/10 pound equals five standard coins.
\par XP Cost: The XP cost equals the gp value of the newly transmuted metal, or a minimum of 1 XP. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metaconcert
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Vi (see text)
\par Manifestation Time: 1 minute
\par Range: 10 feet
\par Target: You and up to fifteen other psions who also know metaconcert
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 9
\par The manifester links his or her psychic might with other psions, creating an entity more powerful than the sum of its parts. All participants (up to sixteen total, including the manifester) must be willing; thus, saving throws and power resistance do not 
apply. Once linked, all the participant\rquote s power points flow into a collective pool, the total of which is 20% more than the sum of the participants\rquote  pools.
 When the power is manifested, one individual is chosen as the lead mind by mutual consent of the other participants. Until the power ends, this \'93conductor\'94
 directs the efforts of the group. Visually, misty strands of glowing power link the brows of all the participants in a complex and shifting pattern.
\par All the powers of each participant are known to the mental entity constructed by metaconcert. This entity can\rquote t take any more actions than a normal individual, but it manifests all its powers more effective
ly. Each individual psion making up the entity provides a cumulative +1 bonus to DCs set when manifesting a power (including using a psionic attack mode) and a cumulative +1 bonus when making saving throws against powers (including Will saves against psio
nic attack modes). If the psionic entity takes temporary ability damage from a psionic attack, the total is divided up among all the members as they see fit.
\par Once linked, the participants must remain within a 20-foot-diameter area, and as a group may only m
ove at a speed of 10 feet. Participants can willingly drop out before the overall metaconcert ends, but they come away with 0 power points. Participants who accidentally move beyond the range of the power or who are forcibly removed also end up with 0 pow
er points.
\par When metaconcert ends normally or is dismissed, remaining power points in the pool are evenly divided among all the participants (round down). A manifester does not leave a metaconcert with more power points than he or she joined in with.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metafaculty
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 9
\par Display: Vi, Ol, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None (see text)
\par Power Resistance: See text
\par Power Points: 17, XP cost
\par The manifester gains exceptional insight concerning any individual or creature whom he or she has previously detected via any other Clairsentience or Telepathy power. For purposes of this power, \'93ex\-ceptional insight\'94
 includes a name, a mental image of the subject, the subject\rquote s alignment, and the subject\rquote s location (an image of the subject\rquote 
s current location that is good enough to teleport to as if studied carefully). Powers, special abilities, and spells do not protect against metafaculty\rquote s ability to find the truth, not even mind blank or spells such as wish.
\par \~\~XP Cost: The manifester expends a number of XP equal to the total level (or HD) of the individual focused on x 500. A character can never expend so much XP using metafaculty that he or she would lo
se a level. If that would be the case, metafaculty simply fails to work.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metamorphosis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Ma, Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Power Points: 9
\par The manifester change his or her form to that of another creature or inanimate object. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the character\rquote 
s normal form, and can have no more hit dice than the character has, and in any case the assumed f
orm cannot have more than 15 hit dice. A character cannot change into constructs, elementals, outsiders, or undead unless the character is already are one of these types.
\par Upon changing, the character regains lost hit points as if having rested for a day (t
hough this healing does not restore temporary ability damage and provide other benefits of resting for a day; and changing back does not heal the character further). If slain, the character reverts to his or her original form, though he or she remains dea
d.
\par The character acquires the physical and natural abilities of the creature he or she has polymorphed into while retaining his or her own mind. Physical abilities include natural size and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores Natural abilities inclu
de armor, natural weapons (not extraordinary or supernatural abilities), and similar gross physical qualities. A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantageous two-weapon attacks) than normal. Natural abilities
 
also include mundane movement capabilities, such as walking, swimming, and flight with wings, but not psionic or magical flight and other psionic or magical forms of travel. Extremely high speeds for certain creatures are the result of extraordinary magic
al, or psionic ability, so they are not granted by this power. (In general, non-flying speeds greater than 60 and flying speeds greater than 120.) Other mundane abilities (such as low-light vision) are considered natural abilities and are retained.
\par }\pard\plain \s35\qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf0 Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par }{The character\rquote s new scores and faculties are average ones for the race or species into which he or she has been transformed.  The character cannot transform into an exceptional or templated creature.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The character retains his or her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, level and class, hit points (despite any change to Constitution score), alignment, base attack bonus, and base saves. (New Strength, Dexte
rity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses, as well as the DCs for affected powers.) The character retains his or her own type, extraordinary abilities, psionics, spells, and spell-like abilities, but not supernatural abilities
.
\par The character does not gain the supernatural abilities or the extraordinary abilities of the new creature.
\par When the polymorph occurs, the character\rquote s equipment, if any, transforms to match the new form. If the new form is a creature who does not use equip
ment (aberration, animal, beast, magical beast, construct, dragon, elemental, ooze, some outsiders, plant, some undead creatures, some shapechangers, or vermin), the equipment melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional. If the new form uses equipme
nt (fey, giant, humanoid, some outsiders, many shapechangers, many undead creatures), the equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.
\par If the character attempts to take the form of a complex object, he or she must make an appropriate 
Craft skill check. The character cannot metamorphose into inherently psionic or magical materials or objects, or any object with a hardness of 15 or greater. The character also cannot take the form of a psionically animated mechanism or any sort of object
 formed of ectoplasm.
\par As an inanimate object, the character loses all mobility; however, he or she retains the ability to manifest powers normally. The character can take damage as an object (but the object\rquote s natural hardness, if any, protects the character).
\par The character can freely designate the new form\rquote s minor physical qualities within the normal ranges for a creature of that type. The new form\rquote s significant physical qualities are also under the character\rquote 
s control, but must fall within the norms for the new form\rquote s species. 
\par The character is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote s race. If the character uses this power to create a disguise, he or she gets a +10 bonus on his or her Disguise check.
\par Incorporeal or gaseous forms cannot be assumed, and incorporeal or gaseous creatures are immune to being polymorphed. A natural shapeshifter (a lycanthrope, doppelganger, experienced druid, etc.) can take its natural form as a standard action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metaphysical Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 3/Psychic Warrior 3
\par Display Vi (see text)
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One weapon or fifty projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of manifestation)
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Power Points: 5
\par A weapon gains a +3 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls. The enhanced weapon glows with pale silver radiance (not sufficient to provide illumination). An enhancement bonus does not stack with a masterwork weapon\rquote s +1 bonus on attacks.

\par Alternatively, the power can affect up to fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projectiles must all be of the same type, and they have to be together in one group. Projectiles (but not thrown weapons) lose their enhancement when used.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Microcosm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Charm, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 9
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target or Area: One living creature or one or more creatures within a 15-foot-radius sphere
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 17
\par When microcosm is manifested, it can target either a single creature or a group.
\par Targeted: If microcosm targets a single creature, that creature\rquote s senses are pinched off from the real world if it has 100 or fewer hit points. The subject\rquote s senses are all completely fabricated from within 
its own mind, though it may not realize this. In reality, the subject sprawls limply and will eventually die of thirst and starvation without aid. However, the subject lives within its own made-up world until the time of its actual death.
\par Area Effect: If m
icrocosm is manifested as an area effect, it sends creatures in a 15-foot-radius sphere into their own (unlinked) catatonias. It affects only creatures that have 30 or fewer hit points, and only up to a total of 300 hit points of such creatures. The power
 affects creatures with the lowest hit point totals first until the next creature would put the total over the 300 hit point limit. (Creatures with negative hit points count as having 0 hit points.)
\par Manifesting microcosm a second time on a subject can turn 
its sensory pathways outward once more. Otherwise, only very powerful psionic powers or similar effects (such as psychic chirurgery or the spell greater restoration) can undo the mental crosswiring that creates a private world.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Blank
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One creature
\par Duration: 1 day
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Power Points: 15
\par The subject is totally protected fro
m all devices and power that detect, influence, or read emotions or thoughts. This protects against all mind-affecting powers and effects, as well as information gathering by Clairsentience powers or effects (except metafaculty). Mind blank even foils ext
raordinary powers and spells (such as limited wish, miracle, and wish) when they are used in such a way as to affect the subject\rquote 
s mind or to gain information about him or her. In the case of remote viewing or scrying that scans an area that the creature is in, the power works but the creature simply isn\rquote 
t detected. Remote viewing and scrying attempts that are targeted specifically at the subject do not work at all.
\par Mind blank is not effective against psionic attack modes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mindlink
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One creature/level, no two of which are initially more than 30 ft. apart
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par The manifester forges a telepathic bond with other creatures, which must have Intelligence scores of 6 or higher. The bond can be established only with willing subjects, who therefore receive no saving throw and gain no benefit from power resistance. The 
m
anifester can communicate telepathically through the bond even if he or she does not share a common language. No special power or influence is established as a result of the bond. Once the bond is formed, it works over any distance (although not from one 
plane to another).
\par 
\par }{\i Mind Probe
\par }{Telepathy (Cha) [Charm]
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Vi, Ma, Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 minute
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 9
\par All the subject\rquote s memories and knowledge are accessible to the manifester, from memories deep below the surface to those still easily called to mind. The manifester can learn the answer to one question per round, to the best of the subject\rquote 
s knowledge. The manifester can also probe a sleeping subject, though the subject may make a Will save against the DC of the mind probe to wake after each question. Subjects who do not wish to be probed can attempt to move beyond the power\rquote s range,
 unless somehow hindered. The manifester poses the questions telepathically, and the answers to those questions are imparted directly to the manifester\rquote 
s mind. The manifester and the subject do not need to speak the same language, though less intelligent creatures may yield up only appropriate visual images in answer to the questions.
\par Creatures protected by mind blank are immune to mind probe.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Seed
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Charm, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 3 rounds
\par Range: 5 feet
\par Target: One humanoid of Medium-size or smaller
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 15, XP cost
\par The manifester impresses the totality of his or her psyche into a subject\rquote s subconscious. If successfully implanted, the seed of the manifester\rquote s mind \'93germinates\'94
 over the period of one week. During this time, the subject begins to unconsciously take on the manifester\rquote s mannerisms. Any time before the seven-day deadline, the mind seed can be purged from the subject\rquote 
s mind with psychic chirurgery or the spell greater restoration (manifesting mind seed again also cleanses the mind).
\par When integration is complete (after seven days), the subject becomes the manifester in mind as he or she was when he or she manifested the power but eight levels lower in experience. The subject does not possess any of the manifester\rquote 
s physical statistics or equipment, but does possess his or her ability scores in Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma as they were eight levels earlier. The subject also knows the powers the manifester knew at the appropriate level.
\par As soon as the subject becomes the manifester\rquote s mental duplicate, the two personalities begin to diverge. Although the subject starts off with the manifester\rquote s experiences, he or she possesses his or her original \'93soul\'94
 and physical body and is free to develop his or her own personality based on its own experiences. Thus, the subject is not the manifester\rquote s slave or servant, but instead an NPC in his or her own right who shares the manifester\rquote 
s earlier memories. 
\par Protection from evil or a similar spell or power can prevent a manifester from implanting mind seed.
\par XP Cost: 3,000 XP.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Store
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 8
\par Display: Ma (see text)
\par Manifestation Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Touch
\par Effect: One storage crystal
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 15
\par This power makes a storage crystal containing the essence of the manifester\rquote s living mind (this power can\rquote t be use
d on a dead subject). Until such time as the manifester perishes, the storage crystal is utterly inert. If the manifester is slain at some later date, his or her soul transfers into the storage crystal, which begins to dimly glow. Upon transference, the m
anifester\rquote 
s physical remains (should they still exist) become inert matter and cannot thereafter be restored to life. The transfer from the slain body to the storage crystal works over any distance, physical or extradimensional, unless some sort of special 
planar geometry supersedes the transfer.
\par Once the storage crystal is activated by the manifester\rquote s physical body\rquote s demise, the character has the abilities of a psicrystal of the appropriate level, plus all the powers he or she knew and the power points pos
sessed when mind store was manifested, but at one level lower. The character has thirty days to grow an organic body, after which time his or her sentience fades and the character\rquote s soul passes on if it hasn\rquote t entered a new body.
\par To grow a body, the character (in the storage crystal) must spend ten days in uninterrupted solitude. The body\rquote 
s constituent parts are pulled as ectoplasm from the Astral Plane, and slowly molded and transformed into a living, breathing body that is an exact duplicate of the character\rquote 
s body at the time he or she mamifested mind store (the crystal itself slowly breaks down and becomes a part of the new organic body). When the ten days are completed, the character completely and totally inhabits the new body. The character possesses 
all the abilities he or she possessed when mind store was manifested, at one level lower, but the character has none of his or her equipment. If the growing body is struck for any amount of damage, it is destroyed and the character\rquote 
s soul passes on.
\par Conceivably, a character could manifest mind switch to utilize a temporary body, but only an evil psion would smash the storage crystal with an imbedded mind in order to permanently usurp the subject\rquote 
s organic body (unless the subject is, itself, irredeemably evil).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mind Switch
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: You and one other living Medium-size or smaller creature
\par Duration: Until you return to your body
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (see text)
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 11
\par The manifester can attempt to take control of a nearby living creature, forcing its mind (and soul) into the manifester\rquote 
s body. The manifester may move his or her mind back into his or her own body whenever he or she desirse (which returns the subject\rquote s mind to its own body). The power ends when the manifester sends his or her mind back to his or her own body.

\par Attempting to switch minds is a full-round action. It is blocked by protection from evil or a similar magical or psionic ward. The manifester possesses the body and forces the creature\rquote s mind into the manifester\rquote 
s body unless it succeeds at a Will save.
\par If successful, the manifester\rquote s life force occupies the host body, and the host\rquote s life force takes over the manifester\rquote 
s. The manifester can call on rudimentary or instinctive knowledge of the subject creature, but not upon its real or acquired knowledge (as can it in the manifester\rquote 
s body). Each retains his or her own alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, class, level, skills, base attack bonus, base saving throw bonuses, hit points (regardless of new Constitution score), power points (if any), and power 
resistance (if any). Each gains the new body\rquote s Strength, Constitution, and Dexterity scores (including modifiers based on these abilities), as well as natural (but not magical) armor. Neither gains the other\rquote s special abilities.
\par As a standard action, the manifester can return to his or her own body, if within range (which ends the power).
\par If the manifester\rquote s new body is slain, he or she returns to his or her own body, if within range, and the life force of the original body departs. If the new body is slain
 beyond the range of the power, the manifester dies, but the switched creature lives on in the manifester\rquote s body permanently. If the manifester\rquote s body is slain while inhabited by the power\rquote 
s subject, it dies, and the manifester continues to inhabit the new body permanently. Any life force with nowhere to go is treated as slain.
\par A successful targeted negate psionics manifested on either switched body causes both minds to return to their original bodies, if within range. If they are out of range, negate psionics has no effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mindwipe
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 4
\par Display: Vi, Ma, Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 7
\par This power bestows one negative level per two manifester levels (maximum five negative levels) to the subject.
\par If the subject has at least as many negative levels as HD, he or she dies. Each negative level gives a creature the following penalties: \endash 
1 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, ability checks, and effective level (for determining the power, duration, DC, and other details of power, spells, or special abilities). The creature also loses 5 hit points. Additionally, a ps
ionic character or creature loses one power from his or her highest available level (a spellcaster loses one spell or spell slot from his or her highest available level). Negative levels stack.
\par Assuming the subject survives, he or she regains lost levels after a number of hours equal to the manifester\rquote s manifester level. Usually, negative levels have a chance of permanently draining the subject\rquote 
s levels, but the negative levels from mindwipe don\rquote t last long enough to do so.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Minor Creation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 1/Psychic Warrior 1
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 minute
\par Range: 0 ft.
\par Effect: An unattended, nonmagical object of nonliving plant matter, up to 1 cu. ft./level
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 1
\par This power creates a nonmagical, nonpsionic, unattended object of nonliving, vegetable matter. The volume of the item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per manifester level. The manifester must succeed at an appropriate skill check to make
 a complex item.
\par Attempting to use any created object as a material component in a spell causes the spell to fail.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Missive
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 0
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Targets: One living creature
\par Effect: Mental message delivered to subject
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester sends a telepathic message of up to ten words to any living creature within range. Missive is strictly a one-way exchange. If the manifester and subject do not share a common language, the subject \'93hears\'94 meaningless mental syllables.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Monster Domination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha) [Compulsion, Mind-Affecting]
\par Level: Psion 9
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: 1 day/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 17
\par The manifester can control the actions of any living creature. The manifester establishes a telepathic link with the subject\rquote 
s mind. If the manifester and the subject share a common language, the manifester can generally force the subject to perform as he or she desires, within the limits of the subject\rquote 
s abilities. If no common language is shared, the manifester can only communicate basic commands. The manifester knows what the subject is experiencing but does not receive direct sensory input from him or her.
\par Subjects resist this control, and those forced to take actions against their natures receive a new saving throw with a bo
nus of +1 to +4, depending on the type of action required. Obviously self-destructive orders are not carried out. Once control is established, the range at which it can be exercised is unlimited, as long as the manifester and subject are on the same plane
. The manifester need not see the subject to control it.
\par Protection from evil or a similar spell or power can prevent the manifester from exercising control or using the telepathic link while the subject is so warded, but it does not prevent the establishment of domination or negate it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {My Light
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con) [Light]
\par Level: Psion 0
\par Display: Au, Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal and 20 ft.
\par Target: You and 20-ft. cone
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester\rquote s eyes pro
duce a 20-foot-long cone of light. The manifester and other creatures can see normally in the light. If the manifester walks into an area filled with psionic or magical darkness, my light goes dark while the manifester stays within it.
\par 
\par }{\i Natural Armor
\par }{Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 4
\par Display: Ol, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Power Points: 7
\par The manifester\rquote s skin grows thick ridges, providing a +4 natural armor bonus to AC. Unlike mundane armor, natural armor entails no armor check penalty or speed reduction.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Negate Psionics
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level)
\par Target or Area: One psionic character or creature, or one object; or 30-ft.-radius burst
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 5
\par A manifester can use negate psionics to end ongoing powers that are manifested on a cre
ature or object, to temporarily suppress the psionic abilities of a psionic item, or to end ongoing power (or at least their effects) within an area. A negated power ends as if its duration had expired. Negate psionics can negate (but not counter) the ong
oing effects of supernatural abilities as well as psionic powers. Negate psionics affects spell-like abilities just as it affects powers (and spells). Negate psionics cannot undo the effects of any power with instantaneous duration. 
\par The manifester chooses to use negate psionics in one of two ways: a targeted negation or an area negation:
\par Targeted Negation: One object, creature, or power is the target of the power. The manifester makes a negation check against the power or against each ongoing power currentl
y in effect on the object or creature. A negation check is 1d20 + 1 per manifester level (maximum +10) against a DC of 11 + the power-to-be-negated\rquote s manifester level.
\par If the object targeted is a psionic item, make a negation check against the item\rquote s manifester level. If successful, all the item\rquote 
s psionic properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonpsionic for the duration of the effect. 
\par A character automatically succeedes in the negation check against any power that character manifest him or herself.
\par Area Negation: The power affects everything within a 30-foot radius.
\par For each creature that is the target of one or more powers, make a negation check against the power with the highest manif
ester level. If that fails, make negation checks against progressively weaker powers until one power is negated (which discharges the negate psionics so far as that target is concerned) or all checks fail. The creature\rquote 
s psionic items are not affected.
\par For each object that is the target of one or more powers, make negation checks as with creatures. Psionic items are not affected by area negations.
\par For each ongoing power with an area centered within the negate psionics target area, make a negation check to negate the power.
\par For each ongoing power whose area overlaps with that of the negation, make a negation check to end the effect, but only within the area of the negate psionics.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Nondetection
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: None
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature or object touched
\par Duration: 1 hour/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
\par Power Points: 5
\par The warded creature or object becomes difficult to detect by Clairsentience powers or psionic and magic items that allow others to view the subject from afar. If a Clairsentience power is attempted against the warded creature or item, the manifester of th
e Clairsentience power must succeed at a manifester level check (1d20 + manifester level) with a DC of 11 + the manifester level of the psionic creature or character who manifested nondetection. If the manifester manifested nondetection on him or herself
 or on an item currently in the manifester\rquote s possession, the DC is 15 + manifester level.
\par If manifested on a creature, nondetection wards the creature\rquote s gear as well as the creature itself.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Null Psionics Field
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Vi, Au
\par Manifestation Time 1 action
\par Range: 10 ft.
\par Area: A 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered on you
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: See text
\par Power Points: 11
\par An invisible barrier surrounds the manifester and moves with him or 
her. The space within this barrier is totally impervious to most psionic effects. Likewise, it prevents the functioning of any psionic items or psionic powers within its confines. The field suppresses any powers or psionic effects used within, brought int
o, or manifested into the area, but does not negate them. Time spent within a null psionics field counts against the suppressed power\rquote s duration. 
\par Astral constructs wink out if they enter the field (or are inside one when it is created). The construct reapp
ears in the same spot once the null psionics field no longer covers the spot where the construct was. Time spent winked out counts normally against the duration of the power that\rquote 
s maintaining the creature. If the construct has power resistance, when the character manifested the null psionics field the character must make a manifester level check (1d20 + manifester level) against the construct\rquote s PR to make it wink out.

\par A psionic weapon does not function psionically within the area, but it is still a weapon 
(and a masterwork one at that). The power has no effect on constructs that are imbued with psionics during their creation process and are thereafter self-supporting (unlike astral constructs that persist only so long as a power\rquote 
s duration). Undead and outsiders are likewise unaffected (unless summoned). These creatures\rquote  psionic powers, spell-like abilities, or supernatural abilities, however, may be temporarily nullified by the field.
\par A negate psionics power does not remove the field. Two or more null psionics fields have no appreciable effect on each other. Artifacts, relics, and creatures of demigod or higher status are unaffected by mortal psionics such as this.
\par Note: Should the manifester be larger than the area enclosed by the field, any part of his or her person that lies outside the field is unaffected by the field.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Oak Body
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Power Points: 13
\par This power transforms the manifester\rquote s body into living oak.
\par The manifester gains damage reduction 20/+1. He or she is immune to blindness, damage to ability scores, deafness, disease, drowning, poison, stunning, and all powers, spells, or attacks that aff
ect physiology or respiration, because the character has no physiology or respiration while this power is in effect. The character only suffers three-quarters damage from acid and cold of all kinds. However, the character also becomes vulnerable to all sp
ecial attacks that affect wood.
\par The character gains a +3 enhancement bonus to Strength, but suffers a \endash 3 enhancement penalty to Dexterity as well (to a minimum score of 1), and his or her speed is reduced to half normal. The character cannot drink (and thus can\rquote 
t use potions), nor play wind instruments.
\par The character\rquote s unarmed attacks deal 1d6 points of normal damage, and he or she is considered \'93armed\'94 when making unarmed attacks (a Small manifester instead deals 1d4 points of damage).
\par The character\rquote s weight increases by a factor of five, but he or she floats in water.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Object Reading
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Au, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: One object
\par Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 1
\par The manifester can learn details of an inanimate object\rquote s previous owner. The amount of information revealed depends on how long the manifester studies a particular object.
\par 1st Round: Last owner\rquote s race.
\par 2nd Round: Last owner\rquote s gender.
\par 3rd Round: Last owner\rquote s age.
\par 4th Round: Last owner\rquote s alignment.
\par 5th Round: How last owner gained and lost the object.
\par 6th+ Round: Previous-to-last owner\rquote s race, and so on.
\par An object without any previous owners reveals no information. A manifester can continue to run down the list of previous owners and learn details about them as long as the power\rquote 
s duration lasts. If the manifester reads the same object again, he or she does not pick up where he or she left off in the list of previous owners.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Painful Touch
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 2/Psychic Warrior 2
\par Display: Vi, Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 round/level (D)
\par Power Points: 3
\par When the manifester makes a successful unarmed attack that deals damage (or in conjunction with any bite or claw powers), he or she deals an additional 1d6 points of subdual damage to the target.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Phase Door
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Effect: Ethereal 5-ft. \'a5 8-ft. opening, 1 ft./level deep
\par Duration: One usage/2 levels
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 13
\par The manifester creates an ethereal passage through wooden, plaster,
 or stone walls, but not other materials. The phase door is invisible and inaccessible to all creatures except the manifester, and only the manifester can use the passage. The manifester disappears when he or she enters the phase door and appears when he 
o
r she exits. If the manifester desires, he or she can take one other creature (Medium-size or smaller) through the door. This counts as two uses of the door. The door does not allow light, sound, psionic effects, or spell effects through it, nor can the m
anifester see through it without using it. True seeing psionics or magical effects reveal a phase door but do not allow its use.
\par A phase door is subject to negate psionics. If anyone is within the passage when it is negated, he or she is harmlessly ejected out the nerest exit.
\par A phase door can be made permanent with a incarnate power. The manifester can allow other creatures to use the phase door by setting some triggering condition for the door. Such conditions can be as simple or elaborate as desired. They
 can be based on a creature\rquote s name, identity, or alignment, but otherwise must be based on observable actions or qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, HD, and hit points don\rquote t qualify.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Plane Shift
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Au, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched, or up to eight willing creatures joining hands
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 13
\par The manifester moves him or herself
 or some other creature to another plane of existence or alternate dimension. If several willing persons link hands in a circle, up to eight can be affected by the plane shift at the same time. Pinpoint accuracy as to a particular arrival location on the 
intended plane is nigh impossible. From the Material Plane, the manifester can reach any other plane, though he or she appears 5 to 500 miles (5d%) from the intended destination.
\par Note: Plane shift transports the creatures instantaneously and then ends. The creatures need to find other means if they are to travel back.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Poison Sense
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 3
\par Display: Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: 30 ft.
\par Target: 30-ft.-radius spread, centered on you
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 5
\par While the duration lasts the manifester becomes aware of the presence of poison within 30 feet of him or her, and its general location. The character can determine the exact type of poison with a successful Wisd
om check (DC 16). A character with the Alchemy skill may additionally try an Alchemy check (DC 16).
\par Note: The power can penetrate barriers of up to 3 feet of stone, 3 inches of common metal, 1 inch of lead, or 6 feet of wood or dirt.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Polymorph Self
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 4/Psychic Warrior 4
\par Display: Ma, Ol
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 hour/level (D)
\par Power Points: 7
\par The manifester changes his or her form to that of another creature. The new form can range in size from Diminutive to one size larger than the character\rquote 
s normal form, and can have no more hit dice than the character has, and in any case the assumed form cannot have more than 15 hit dice. A character cannot change into constructs, e
lementals, outsiders, or undead unless the character is already are that type.
\par Upon changing, the character regains lost hit points as if having rested for a day (though this healing does not restore temporary ability damage and provide other benefits of r
esting for a day; and changing back does not heal the character further). If slain, the character reverts to his or her original form, though he or she remains dead.
\par The character acquires the physical and natural abilities of the new form: natural size, physical ability scores (average Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution for the new form\rquote 
s kind), natural armor, natural weapons, and similar gross physical quantities. A body with extra limbs does not allow a character to make more attacks (or more advantag
eous two-weapon attacks) than normal. Natural abilities also include mundane movement capabilities, such as walking, swimming, and flight with wings.
\par The character does not acquire the extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-like abilities of the new form. The character cannot change into variation form of a creature.  Incorporeal or gaseous forms cannot be assumed.
\par The character retains his or her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma sores, level and class, hit point (despite any change to the character\rquote s Cons
titution score), alignment, base attack bonus and save bonuses.  (New Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores may affect final attack and save bonuses.)  The character retains his or her extraordinary abilities, spells, and spell-like abilities, but 
not his or her supernatural abilities (if any).  The character can manifest powers, or cast spells for which the character has components, but the character needs a humanlike voice for verbal components and humanlike hands for somatic components.
\par If the character\rquote s new form is a fey, giant, humanoid, shapechanger, or undead, the character\rquote 
s equipment changes to match the new form and retains its properties.  Otherwise, it melds into the new form and becomes nonfunctional.  Melded material components and focu
ses cannot be used to cast spells.  Any part of the body or piece of equipment that is separated from the whole reverts to its original form.
\par The character chooses the form\rquote s physical qualities (such as hair color, height, and gender), but they must fall within the normal ranges for the form.  The character is effectively disguised as an average member of the new form\rquote 
s race.  If the character uses this power to create a disguise, the character gets a +10 bonus on his or her disguise check.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 5
\par Display: Ma, Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 minute/level
\par Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless)
\par Power Resistance: Yes (harmless)
\par Power Points: 9
\par This power grants the subject a power resistance (PR) equal to 12 + the manifester\rquote s manifester level.
\par In order to affect a creature that has power resistance with a power, roll the creature\rquote s power resistance or higher on 1d20 + manifester level. A creature with power resistance may voluntarily lower it in order to accept a psionic effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Power Turning
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 7
\par Display: Vi, Me
\par Manifesting Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: Until completely expended or 10 minutes/level
\par Power Points: 13
\par Powers (and spell-like effects) targeted against the manifester rebound on the original manifester. This power only turns psionic powers that have the manifester as a target. Effect and area powers are not affected. Power turning also fail
s to affect touch range powers. 
\par From 7 to 10 (1d4+6) power levels are affected by the turning. The DM secretly rolls the exact number. Each power turned subtracts its level from the amount of power turning left.
\par A power might be only partially turned. Sub
tract these from the power level of the incoming psionic power. Divide the number of the remaining levels of the incoming power by the power level of the incoming power to see what fraction of the effect gets through. For damaging power, the power turning
 manifester and the original manifester each suffer a fraction of the damage. For nondamaging powers, each has a proportional chance to be affected.
\par If the manifester and an attacker are both warded by power turning effects in operation, a resonating field is created. Roll randomly to determine the result:
\par d%\tab \tab Effect
\par 01\endash 70\tab \tab Power drains away without effect.
\par 71\endash 80\tab \tab Power affects both characters equally at full effect.
\par 81\endash 97\tab \tab Both turning effects are rendered nonfunctional for 1d4 minutes.
\par 98\endash 100\tab Both characters go through a rift into another plane.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Precognition
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psion 6
\par Display: Vi, Au
\par Manifestation Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
\par Power Points: 5
\par The precognition power provides the manifeste
r with a useful vision in reply to a question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity that is to occur within a year. The vision can be as simple as a short glimpse of a meaningful image, or it might take the form of a full-length dream lasting sev
eral minutes.  In all cases, the DM controls what information is received. Note that if the party doesn\rquote t act on the information, the conditions may change so that the information is no longer useful.
\par The base chance for a correct precognition is 80%, plus 1% per manifester level. The DM adjusts the chance if unusual circumstances require it. If the dice roll fails, the manifester knows the power failed, unless specific psionics or magic yielding false
 information is at work.
\par Multiple precognitions about the same action by the same manifester use the same die roll result as the first precognition and yield the same answer each time.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Probability Travel
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 9
\par Display: None
\par Manifestation Time: 1 minute
\par Range: Touch
\par Targets: You plus one additional creature touched per two levels
\par Duration: See text
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 17
\par This power allows the manifester travel to the Astral Plane, and from the
re to other planes. The manifester can bring other creatures with him or her, provided the creatures are linked in a circle with the manifester at the time of the manifestation. These fellow travelers are dependent upon the manifester and must accompany h
im or her at all times. If something happens to the manifester during the journey, the companions are stranded wherever he or she left them.
\par The manifester physically travels to the Astral Plane, leaving nothing behind. Since the Astral Plane touches upon e
very other plane, the manifester can travel astrally to other planes. The manifester then leaves the Astral Plane, entering into the plane of existence he or she has chosen.
\par Because the manifester and companions are physically on the Astral Plane, they pos
sess no silver cords and thus are not vulnerable to those who might sever them. However, if a character perishes while out journeying amid the planes, he or she is just as dead as if he or she had perished in his or her home plane.
\par The power lasts until the manifester desires to end it, or until it is terminated by some outside means, such as negate psionics manifested upon the manifester.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Prowess
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Clairsentience (Wis)
\par Level: Psychic Warrior 3
\par Display: Me
\par Manifestation Time: See text
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Power Points: 5
\par If an enemy provokes an attack of opportunity, the manifester can take it, even if he or she has already taken the allotted number of attacks of opportunity this round. A character may not make two attacks of opportunity against the sa
me target in one round even if using this power, unless the target provokes two separate attacks.
\par A character can manifest this power instantly, quickly enough to gain an extra attack of opportunity in the same round. Manifesting the power is a free action
, like manifesting a quickened power, and it counts toward the normal limit of one quickened power per round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psionic Lock
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychoportation (Dex)
\par Level: Psion 2
\par Display: Ma
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: The door, chest, or portal touched, up to 30 square ft./level in size
\par Duration: Permanent
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 3
\par A psionic lock power manifested upon a door, chest, or portal psionically locks it. A manifester can f
reely pass his or her own lock without affecting it; otherwise, a door or object secured with psionic lock can be opened only by breaking in or by a successful negate psionics or knock power. Add +10 to the normal DC to bash open a door or portal affected
 by this power. Note that knock does not remove psionic lock; it only suppresses it for 10 minutes.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Chirurgery
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Telepathy (Cha)
\par Level: Psion 9
\par Display: Vi, Au, Me
\par Manifestation Time: 10 minutes
\par Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)
\par Target: One living creature
\par Duration: Instantaneous
\par Saving Throw: Will negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 17, XP cost (see text)
\par The manifester can repair psychic damage. He or she can also grant another creature knowledge of powers the manifester knows.
\par Repair D
amage: The manifester can remove any compulsions and charms, even those higher than 6th level. The manifester can remove any ongoing or permanent effect caused by a psychic power with psychic chirurgery, save for hit points. The manifester can also restor
e
 all drained levels (or disperse all negative levels) afflicting the subject, regardless of how he or she lost those levels, restoring him or her to the highest level he or she had previously achieved. The drained levels are restored only if the time sinc
e the subject lost the level is no more than 1 hour per manifester level. These effects end or are reversed as soon as the manifestation time is completed without need for another saving throw. 
\par The manifester can also remove all psionic effects penalizing the subject\rquote 
s abilities, heal all temporary damage to all ability scores, and restore all points permanently drained from all ability scores. Psychic chirurgery also removes all forms of insanity, confusion, and so on, but it does not restore levels or Con
stitution points lost due to death.
\par Transfer Knowledge: If desired, the manifester can directly transfer knowledge of a power known to another psionic character. A manifester can\rquote t give a character knowledge of a psionic power of a level higher than he or 
she could normally manifest, but the manifester could give him or her knowledge of a power that is not normally on the character\rquote 
s power list. Knowledge of powers granted through psychic chirurgery does not count toward the maximum number of powers a character can know per level.
\par XP Cost: Each time the manifester uses psychic chirurgery to implant knowledge of a power in another creature, the manifester pays an XP cost equal to 3,000 x the level of the power implanted.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychic Vampire
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychokinesis (Con)
\par Level: Psion 5/Psychic Warrior 5
\par Display: Vi (see text), Me
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Creature touched
\par Duration: 1 round/level
\par Saving Throw: Fortitude negates
\par Power Resistance: Yes
\par Power Points: 9
\par The manifester\rquote s successful melee touch attack drains 2 power points/level from the foe and transfers them immediately to the manifester. The manifester can\rquote 
t gain more power points than he or she normally has available in a day. The stolen power points remain in the manifester\rquote s reserve until used normally. This touch attack, charged with a psionic power, is treated as an armed attack.
\par Against psionic beings who have no power points, this touch instead deals 1 point of temporary Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma damage (manifester\rquote s choice)
. The manfiester gains 1 power point from this drain. The power has the same effect on nonpsionic opponents.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychofeedback
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psychometabolism (Str)
\par Level: Psion 4/Psychic Warrior 4
\par Display: Vi
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Personal
\par Target: You
\par Duration: 1 minute (D)
\par Power Points: 7
\par The manifester can use power points to boost his or her Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution modifiers as a free action. While the duration lasts, the manifester can use power points on a round-by-round basis to boost any 
or all of his or her ability score modifiers by a number equal to half the power points expended for that round as a free action. A manifester could simultaneously boost two scores, or all three, as long as he or she pays the total power point cost. The m
anifester doesn\rquote t have to boost an ability modifier every round to keep the power in effect\emdash as long as the duration lasts, he or she has the potential to boost ability modifiers on any round he or she chooses.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Psycholuminescence
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Metacreativity (Int)
\par Level: Psion 1
\par Display: Vi (see text), Au
\par Manifestation Time: 1 action
\par Range: Touch
\par Target: Object touched
\par Duration: 10 minutes/level
\par Saving Throw: None
\par Power Resistance: No
\par Power Points: 1
\par The object touched begins to glow with a silvery light, shedding l
ight in a 20-foot radius. Creatures who suffer penalties in bright light suffer them while exposed to this psycholuminescence. The power cannot be manifested on a creature. If the power is manifested on a small object that is then placed inside or under a
 lightproof covering, the power\rquote s effects are blocked until the covering is removed.
\par Psycholuminescence brought into an area of magical darkness (or vice versa) is temporarily negated, so that the otherwise prevailing light conditions exist in the overlapping areas.
\par }}