{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f116\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times};}{\f117\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times};}
{\f119\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times};}{\f120\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times};}{\f121\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times};}
{\f122\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times};}{\f123\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times};}{\f342\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f340\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f341\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f343\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f344\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f345\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f346\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f347\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \i 
\sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs17 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\info{\title Creature Overview}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy15\hr16\min25}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min15}{\version15}{\edmins34}
{\nofpages11}{\nofwords3200}{\nofchars18241}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws22401}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{\ul 
\par }{CREATURE OVERVIEW
\par }{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\ul MAIN STATISTICS BLOCK}{
\par This text contains basic game information on the creature. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Name}{
\par This is the name by which the creature is generally known. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Size and Type}{
\par Information on the creature's base size and any Type modifiers. 
\par 
\par Table: Creature Sizes
\par Size\tab \tab AC/Attack Modifier\tab Dimension*\tab \tab Weight**
\par ----\tab \tab ------------------\tab \tab ----------\tab \tab --------
\par Fine \tab \tab +8 \tab \tab \tab 6 in. or less \tab \tab 1/8 lb. or less
\par Diminutive \tab +4 \tab \tab \tab 6 in.-1 ft. \tab \tab 1/8 lb.-1 lb.
\par Tiny \tab \tab +2 \tab \tab \tab 1 ft.-2 ft. \tab \tab 1 lb.-8 lb.
\par Small \tab \tab +1 \tab \tab \tab 2 ft.-4 ft. \tab \tab 8 lb.-60 lb.
\par Medium \tab 0 \tab \tab \tab 4 ft.-8 ft. \tab \tab 60 lb.-500 lb.
\par Large \tab \tab -1 \tab \tab \tab 8 ft.-16 ft. \tab \tab 500 lb.-4,000 lb.
\par Huge \tab \tab -2 \tab \tab \tab 16 ft.-32 ft. \tab \tab 4,000 lb.-32,000 lb.
\par Gargantuan \tab -4 \tab \tab \tab 32 ft.-64 ft. \tab \tab 32,000 lb.-250,000 lb.
\par Colossal \tab -8 \tab \tab \tab 64 ft. or more \tab \tab 250,000 lb. or more
\par *Biped's height, quadruped's body length (nose to base of tail).\line **-Assumes that the creature is roughly as dense as a regular animal. A creature made of stone will weigh considerably more. A gaseous creature will weigh much less.
\par Each creature is "typed". Type determines many of the creature's characteristics and abilities, as described below.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Hit Dice }{
\par This line gives the number and type of Hit Dice the creature has and any bonus hit points. A parenthetical note gives the creature\rquote s average hit points. A creature\rquote s Hit Dice total
 is also its level for determining how spells affect the creature, its rate of natural healing, and its maximum ranks in a skill. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Initiative}{
\par This line shows the creature\rquote s modifier to initiative rolls. A parenthetical note tells where the modifier comes from. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Speed}{
\par This line gives the creature\rquote s tactical speed. If the creature wears armor that reduces its speed, this fact is given along with a parenthetical note indicating the armor type; the creature\rquote s base unarmored speed follows. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Armor Class}{
\par The Armor Class line gives the creature\rquote 
s AC for normal combat and includes a parenthetical mention of the modifiers contributing to it (usually size, Dexterity, and natural armor).  Note that each creature is proficient in whatever type of armor (light, medium,
 or heavy) that is is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types.  Creatures not listed as wearing armor as not proficient with armor.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Attacks}{
\par This line gives all the creature\rquote s physical attacks, whether with natural or manufactured weapons. 
\par Natu
ral Weapons: A creature with the Weapon Finesse feat can use its Dexterity modifier on melee attacks with Natural Weapons. The first entry is for the creature's primary weapon. The remaining weapons are secondary and have -5 to the attack bonus, no matter
 how many there are. Creatures with the Multiattack feat suffer only a -2 penalty to secondary attacks. 
\par Unless noted otherwise, natural weapons threaten critical hits on a natural attack roll of 20. Unless noted otherwise, creatures deal double damage on critical hits. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Damage}{
\par This line shows the damage each of the creature\rquote s attacks deals. 
\par If any attacks also cause some special effect other than damage (poison, disease, etc.), that information is given here. 
\par Natural weapons have types just as other weapons do. The most common are summarized below. 
\par Bite: The creature attacks with its mouth, dealing piercing, slashing, and bludgeoning damage. 
\par Claw or Rake: The creature rips with a sharp appendage, dealing piercing and slashing damage. 
\par Gore: The creature spears the opponent with an antler, horn or similar appendage, dealing piercing damage. 
\par Slap or Slam: The creature batters opponents with an appendage, dealing bludgeoning damage. 
\par Sting: The creature stabs with a stinger, dealing piercing dam\-age. Stings are usually envenomed. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Face/Reach}{
\par Written in the format [feet] by [feet]/[feet]: The numbers before the slash show the creature\rquote s fighting space (width first, length second). The number after the slash is the creature\rquote s natural reach. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Special Abilities}{
\par A special ability is either extraordinary (Ex), spell-like (Sp), or supernatural (Su). 
\par For creatures with spell-like abilities, a designated caster level serves to define how difficult it is to dispel their spell-like effects and to defi
ne any level-dependent variable (such as range and duration) the abilities might have. If no caster level is specified, the caster level is equal to the creature\rquote s Hit Dice. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Special Qualities}{
\par This line gives all the creature\rquote s special qualities, in the order they are most likely to be used. If the creature has no special qualities, this line does not appear. Details of the most common special qualities are provided here. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Saves}{
\par This line gives the creature\rquote s Fortitude, Reflex, and Will save modifiers. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Skills}{
\par This line lists all the creature\rquote s skills by name along with each skill\rquote s score. 
\par A creature\rquote s type and Intelligence score determine the number of skill points it has. Some creatures receive bonus skill points for having Hit Dice in excess of what is normal for creatures of their size, as listed in the accompanying table. 

\par Type\tab \tab \tab Base Skill\tab \tab Bonus
\par Points\tab \tab \tab Skill \tab \tab \tab Points
\par ----\tab \tab \tab ----------\tab \tab ------------
\par Aberration\tab \tab 2xInt score\tab \tab +2/EHD*
\par Animal\tab \tab \tab 10-15\tab \tab \tab -
\par Beast\tab \tab \tab 10-15\tab \tab +1/EHD
\par Construct\tab \tab -\tab \tab \tab -
\par Dragon\tab \tab \tab (6 + Int mod)xHD\tab -
\par Elemental\tab \tab 2xInt score\tab \tab +2/EHD
\par Fey\tab \tab \tab 3xInt score\tab \tab +2/EHD
\par Giant\tab \tab \tab 6 + Int mod\tab \tab +1/EHD
\par Humanoid\tab \tab 6 + Int mod\tab \tab +1/EHD
\par Magical beast\tab \tab 2xInt score\tab \tab +1/EHD
\par Monstrous humanoid\tab 2xInt score\tab \tab +2/EHD
\par Ooze\tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab \tab -
\par Outsider\tab \tab (8 + Int mod)xHD\tab -
\par Plant \tab \tab \tab -\tab \tab \tab -
\par Shapechanger\tab \tab 2xInt score\tab \tab +1/EHD
\par Vermin\tab \tab 10-15\tab \tab \tab -
\par Undead\tab \tab 3xInt score\tab \tab +2/EHD
\par *-EHD: Extra Hit Die. To calculate EHD for any creature other than an elemental, subtract 1 from the creature\rquote s total Hit Dice if it is Medium-size or smaller; 2
 if Large; 4 if Huge; 16 if Gargantuan; and 32 if Colossal. Treat results less than 0 as 0.
\par The "Skills" section of the creature\rquote s descriptive text recaps racial and other bonuses for the sake of clarity; these bonuses should not be added to the listed ski
ll scores unless otherwise noted. An asterisk (*) beside the relevant score and in the "Skills" section indicates a conditional adjustment. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Feats}{
\par The line lists all the creature\rquote s feats by name. 
\par }{\cs17\b 
\par SECONDARY STATISTICS BLOCK}{
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Climate/Terrain}{
\par This entry describes the locales where the creature is most often found. 
\par Cold: Arctic and subarctic climes. Any area that has winter conditions for the greater portion of the year is cold. 
\par Temperate: Any area that has alternating warm and cold seasons. 
\par Warm: Tropical and subtropical climes. Any area that has summer conditions for the greater portion of the year is warm. 
\par Aquatic: Fresh or salt water. 
\par Desert: Any dry area with sparse vegetation. 
\par Forest: Any area covered with trees. 
\par Hill: Any area with rugged but not mountainous terrain. 
\par Marsh: Low, flat, waterlogged areas; includes swamps. 
\par Mountains: Rugged terrain, higher than hills. 
\par Plains: Any fairly flat area that is not a desert, marsh, or forest. 
\par Underground: Subterranean areas. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Organization}{
\par This line de
scribes the kinds of groups the creature might form. A range of numbers in parentheses indicates how many combat-ready adults are in each type of group. Many groups also have a number of noncombatants, expressed as a percentage of the fighting population.
 Noncombatants can include young, the infirm, slaves, or other individuals who are not inclined to fight. A creature\rquote s Society entry may include more details on non\-combatants. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Challenge Rating}{
\par This is the average level of a party of adventurers for which one creature would make an encounter of moderate difficulty. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Alignment}{
\par This entry gives the alignment that the creature is most likely to have. Every entry includes a qualifier that indicates how broadly that alignment applies to the species as a whole. 
\par Always: The creature is born with the listed alignment. The creature may have a hereditary predisposition to the alignment or come from a plane that predetermines it. It is possible for individ
uals to change alignment, but such individuals are either unique or one-in-a-million exceptions. 
\par Usually: The majority (more than 50%) of these creatures have the given alignment. This may be due to strong cultural influences, or it may be a legacy of the creatures\rquote  origin. 
\par Often: The creature tends toward the listed alignment, either by nature or nurture, but not strongly. A plurality (40-50%) of individuals have the given alignment, but exceptions are common. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Treasure}{
\par This entry reflects how much wealth the creature owns. 
\par Treasures include coins, goods, and items. Creatures can have varying amounts of each, as follows. 
\par Standard: Roll once under each type of treasure\rquote s column on the appropriate row for the creature\rquote s Challenge Rating (for groups of creatures, use the Encounter Level for the encounter instead). 
\par Some creatures have double, triple, or even quadruple standard treasure; in these cases roll under each treasure column two, three, or four times. 
\par None: The creature collects no treasure of its own. 
\par Nonstandard: Some creatures have quirks or habits that affect the types of treasure they collect. These creatures use the same treasure tables, but with special adjustments. 
\par Fractional Coins: Roll on the Coins column for the creature\rquote s Challenge Rating, but divide the result as indicated. 
\par % Goods or Items: The creature has goods or items only some of the time. Before checking for goods or items, roll d% against the listed percentage. On a success, make a normal roll on the Goods or Items column (wh
ich may still result in no goods or items). 
\par Double Goods or Items: Roll twice on the Goods or Items column. 
\par Parenthetical Notes: Some entries for goods or items include notes that limit the types of treasure a creature collects. 
\par When a note includes the word "no," it means the creature does not collect or cannot keep that thing. If a random roll generates such a result, treat the result as "nothing" instead. 
\par When a note includes the word "only," the creature goes out of its way to collect treasure of the indicated type. If an entry for Goods indicates "gems only," roll on the Goods column and treat any "art" result as "gems" instead. 
\par It sometimes will be necessary to reroll until the right sort of item appears.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Advancement}{
\par This book lists only the weakest and most common version of each creature. The Advancement line shows how tough the creature can get, in terms of extra Hit Dice. (This is not an absolute limit, but exceptions are extremely rare.) 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Improvement}{
\par As its Hit Dice increase, the creature\rquote s attack bonuses and saving throw modifiers might improve, and it could gain more feats and skills, depending on its type. 
\par Note that if the creature acquires a character class, it improves according to its class, not its type. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Aberration}{
\par Aberration: An aberration has a bizarre anatomy, strange abilities, an alien mindset, or any combination of the three. Unless noted otherwise, aberrations have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Will\line Skill Points: +2 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Animal}{
\par Animal: An animal is a nonhumanoid creature, usually a vertebrate. All animals have Intelligence scores of 1 or 2. Unless noted otherwise, animals have low-light vision.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Usually Fortitude and Reflex\line Skill Points: 10-15\line Feats: -
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Beast}{
\par Beast: A beast is a nonhistorical, vertebrate creature with a reasonably normal anatomy and no magical or unusual abilities.   
Beasts have Intelligence scores of 1 or 2.  Unless noted otherwise, beasts have low-light vision and darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par Hit Die: d10\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude and Reflex\line Skill Points: 10-15\line Feats: -
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Construct}{
\par Construct: A construct is an animated object or artificially constructed creature. Constructs usually have no Intelligence scores and never have Constitution scores. A construct is immune to mind-influencing effects and to poison, sleep, para
lysis, stunning, disease, death effects, and necromantic effects.
\par Constructs cannot heal damage on their own, though they can be healed. Constructs can be repaired in the same way an object can. A construct with the regeneration and fast healing special qualities still benefits from those qualities.
\par A construct is not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, ability drain, or energy drain. It is immune to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless the effect also works on objects). A
 construct is not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced to 0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed. Since it was never alive, a construct cannot be raised or resurrected.
\par Unless noted otherwise, constructs have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par Hit Die: d10\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: -\line Skill Points: -\line Feats: -
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Dragon}{
\par Dragon: A dragon is a reptilian creature, usually winged, with magical or unusual abilities. Dragons are immune to sleep and paralysis effects. Unless noted otherwise, dragons have darkvision with a range of 60 feet and low-light vision.
\par Hit Die: d12\line Attack Bonus: Total HD (as fighter)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude, Reflex, Will\line Skill Points: +6 (+ Intelligence modifier) per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Elemental}{
\par Elemental: An elemental is composed of one of the four classical elements: air, earth, fire, or water. It is immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning. Elementals have no clear front or back and are therefore not 
subject to critical hits or flanking. Unless noted otherwise, they have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par A slain elemental cannot be raised or resurrected, although a wish or miracle spell can restore it to life.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Variable by type-\line Reflex (Air, Fire);\line Fortitude (Earth, Water) \line Skill Points: +2 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Fey}{
\par Fey: A fey is a creature with supernatural abilities and connections to nature or to some other force or place. Fey are usually human-shaped.  Fey are proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in their entries. Unless noted otherwise, f
ey have low-light vision.
\par Hit Die: d6\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx1/2 (as wizard)\line Good Saving Throws: Reflex and Will\line Skill Points: +2 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Giant}{
\par Giant: A giant is a humanoid creature of great strength, usually of at least Large size. Giants are proficient with all simple weapons and with any weapons listed in their entries. Unless noted otherwise, giants have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.

\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude \line Skill Points: +1 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Humanoid}{
\par Humanoid: A humanoid usually has two arms, two legs, and one head, or a humanlike torso, arms, and head. Humanoids have few or no supernatural or extraordinary abilities, and usually are Small o
r Medium-size. Every humanoid creature also has a sub-type modifier based on its race.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Variable (Fortitude or Reflex or Will)\line Skill Points: +1 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Magical Beast}{ 
\par Magical Beast: Magical beasts are similar to beasts but can have Intelligence score higher than 2.  Magical beasts usually have supernatural or extraordinary abilities. Unless noted otherwise, magical beasts have darkvision with a range of 60 f
eet and low-light vision.
\par Hit Die: d10\line Attack Bonus: Total HD (as fighter)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude and Reflex\line Skill Points: +1 per extra HD \line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Monstrous Humanoid}{ 
\par Monstrous Humanoid: These are humanoid creatures with monstrous
 or animalistic features, often having supernatural abilities. Unless noted otherwise, monstrous humanoids have darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Monstrous humanoids are proficient with all simple weapons and with any weapons mentioned in their entries.

\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HD (as fighter)\line Good Saving Throws: Reflex and Will\line Skill Points: +2 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Ooze}{
\par Ooze: An ooze is an amorphous or mutable creature. Oozes are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and 
polymorphing. They have no clear front or back and are therefore not subject to critical hits or flanking. Oozes are blind but have the blindsight special quality. They have no Intelligence scores and are therefore immune to all mind-influencing effects (
charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
\par Oozes have no natural armor ratings, but they are nevertheless difficult to kill because their bodies are mostly simple protoplasm. This is reflected by bonus hit points (in addition to those fr
om Hit Dice and Constitution scores) according to size, as shown in the table below.
\par Ooze Size \tab Bonus Hit Points
\par ---------\tab ----------------
\par Fine \tab \tab -
\par Diminutive \tab -
\par Tiny \tab \tab -
\par Small \tab \tab 5
\par Medium-size \tab 10
\par Large \tab \tab 15
\par Huge \tab \tab 20
\par Gigantic \tab 30
\par Colossal \tab 40
\par Hit Die: d10\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: -\line Skill Points: -\line Feats: Blindsight
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Outsider}{
\par Outsider: An outsider is a nonelemental creature that comes from another dimension, reality, or plane. Outsiders are proficient with all s
imple weapons and any weapons mentioned in their entries.  Outsiders with Intelligence scores of 6 or higher also are proficient with all martial weapons.  Unless noted otherwise, outsiders have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par A slain outsider cannot be raised or resurrected, although a wish or miracle spell can restore it to life.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HD (as fighter)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude, Reflex, Will\line Skill Points: +8 (+ Intelligence modifier) per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 total HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Plant}{
\par Plant: This type comprises vegetable creatures. Plants are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. They are not subject to critical hits or mind-influencing effects. If a plant-type creature has vision, the creature has low-li
ght vision unless otherwise noted.
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude\line Skill Points: -\line Feats: -
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Shapechanger}{ 
\par Shapechanger: This type of creature has a stable body but can assume other forms. Unless noted otherwise, shapechangers have darkvision with a range of 60 feet. 
\par Hit Die: d8\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude, Reflex, Will\line Skill Points: +1 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Vermin}{
\par Vermin: This type includes insects, 
arachnids, other arthropods, worms, and similar invertebrates. Vermin have no Intelligence scores and are immune to all mind-influencing effects. Unless noted otherwise, vermin have darkvision with a range of 60 feet. Poisonous vermin get a bonus to the D
C for their poison based on their size, as shown on the following table.
\par Vermin Size \tab Poison DC Bonus
\par -----------\tab ---------------
\par Medium-size \tab +2
\par Large \tab \tab +4
\par Huge \tab \tab +6
\par Gargantuan \tab +8
\par Colossal \tab +10
\par Hit Die: d8 \line Attack Bonus: Total HDx3/4 (as cleric)\line Good Saving Throws: Fortitude\line Skill Points: 10-12\line Feats: - 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Undead}{ 
\par Undead: Undead are once-living creatures animated by spiritual or supernatural forces. Undead are immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, disease, death effects, and necromantic eff
ects, and they ignore mind-influencing effects. Undead are not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, ability drain, or energy drain. They have no Constitution scores and are therefore immune to any effect requiring a Fortitude save (un
less it affects objects). An undead spellcaster uses its Charisma modifier when making Concentration checks.
\par Undead with no Intelligence scores cannot heal damage on their own, though they can be healed. Negative energy (such as an inflict wounds spell) can
 heal undead creatures. The regeneration and fast healing special qualities work regardless of the creature's Intelligence score.
\par An undead creature is not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced to 0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed. Most undead have darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par Undead cannot be raised. Resurrection can affect them, but since undead creatures usually are unwilling to return to life, these attempts generally fail.
\par Hit Die: d12\line Attack Bonus: Total HDx1/2 (as wizard)\line Good Saving Throws: Will\line Skill Points: +2 per extra HD\line Feats: +1 per 4 extra HD
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Size Increases}{
\par Creatures may become larger as they gain Hit Dice (the new size is noted parenthetically). 
\par A size increase affects a creature\rquote s ability scores, AC, attack bonuses, and damage ratings as indicated on the following tables. 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Natural\tab AC/
\par Old Size*\tab New Size\tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Armor\tab Attack
\par ---------\tab --------\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----\tab ------
\par Fine\tab \tab Diminutive\tab Same \tab -2\tab Same\tab Same\tab -4
\par Diminutive\tab Tiny\tab \tab +2 \tab -2\tab Same\tab Same\tab -2
\par Tiny\tab \tab Small\tab \tab +4 \tab -2\tab Same\tab Same\tab -1
\par Small\tab \tab Medium-size\tab +4\tab -2\tab +2\tab Same\tab -1
\par Medium-size\tab Large\tab \tab +8\tab -2\tab +4\tab +2\tab -1
\par Large\tab \tab Huge\tab \tab +8\tab -2\tab +4\tab +3\tab -1
\par Huge\tab \tab Gargantuan\tab +8\tab Same\tab +4\tab +4\tab -2
\par Gargantuan\tab Colossal\tab +8\tab Same\tab +4\tab +5\tab -4
\par *-Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size. 
\par Old Damage (Each)*\tab \tab New Damage
\par ------------------\tab \tab ----------
\par 1d2\tab \tab \tab \tab 1d3
\par 1d3\tab \tab \tab \tab 1d4
\par 1d4\tab \tab \tab \tab 1d6
\par 1d6\tab \tab \tab \tab 1d8
\par 1d8 or 1d10\tab \tab \tab 2d6
\par 1d12\tab \tab \tab \tab 2d8
\par *-Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size category.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Creatures With Character Classes}{
\par If a creature acquires a character class, it follows the rules for multiclassing. The creature\rquote s character level equals the number of class levels it has, plus the total Hit Dice for such beings. 
\par A creature\rquote s monster class is always its favored class, and the creature never suffers XP penalties for having it. 
\par Additional Hit Dice from a character class never affect a creature\rquote s size. 
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Descriptive Text}{
\par The descriptive text opens with a short description of the monster: what
 it does, what it looks like, and what is most noteworthy about it. Special sections describe how the creature fights and give details on special attacks, special qualities, skills, and feats.
\par }}