{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Monsters (L)}{\subject SRD}
{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr11\min46}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min16}{\version9}{\edmins3}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords999}{\nofchars5695}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This materia
l is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (L)
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Lamia}{
\par Medium-Size Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 9d10+9 (58 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 60 ft.\line AC: 17 (+2 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: Touch +9 melee; or dagger +11/+6 melee\line Damage: Touch 1 permanent Wisdom drain; or dagger 1d4\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities, Wisdom drain\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +7\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 15, Cha 12\line Skills: Bluff +13, Concentration +11, Hide +14\line 
Feats: Dodge, Iron Will, Mobility, Weapon Finesse (dagger)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any desert, hill, and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or gang (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually chaotic evil\line Advancement: 10-13 HD (Large); 14-27 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day-charm person, major image, mirror image, and suggestion. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 9th-level sorcerer (save DC 11 + spell level).
\par Wisdom Drain (Su): By making a successful touch attack, a lamia permanently drains 1 point of Wisdom. Lamias try to use this power early in an encounter to make foes more susceptible to charm person and suggestion.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Lammasu}{
\par Large Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 7d10+21 (59 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 60 ft. \-(average)\line AC: 14 (-1 size, +5_natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +12 melee\line Damage: Claw 1d6+6\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./"5_ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Spells, pounce, rake 1d6+3\line Special Qualities: Magic circle against evil, spell-like abilities\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +7\line Abilities: Str 23, Dex 10, Con 17, Int_16, Wis_17, Cha_14\line 
Skills: Concentration +12, Knowledge (arcana) +12, Listen +8 \line Sense Motive +12, Spot +8*\line Feats: Blind-Fight, Combat Casting, Flyby Attack, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes
\par Climate/Terrain: Any warm land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always lawful good\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)
\par Lammasus speak Common, Draconic, and Celestial.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spells: A lammasu casts spells as a 7th-level cleric, choosing from any two of the following domains: Good, Healing, Knowledge, and Law. Save DC is 13 + spell level.
\par Magic Circle against Evil (Su): A lammasu has a continuous magic circle against evil that affects a 20-foot radius. The aura can be dispelled, but the lammasu can create it again as a free action on its next turn.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 2/day-improved invisibility; 1/day-dimension door. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 7th-level sorcerer.
\par Pounce (Ex): If a lammasu leaps upon a foe during the first round of combat, it can make a full attack even if it has already taken a move action.
\par Rake (Ex): A lammasu that pounces on a creature can make two rake attacks (+12 melee) with its hind legs for 1d6+3 slashing damage each.
\par Skills: *Lammasus gain a +2 racial bonus to Spot checks during daylight hours.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Lillend}{
\par Large Outsider (Chaotic, Good)\line Hit Dice: 7d8+14 (45 hp)\line Initiative: +3 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft., fly 70 ft. (average)\line AC: 17 (-1 size, +3 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: Sword +11/+6 melee, tail slap +6 melee\line 
Damage: Sword 1d8+5, tail slap 2d6+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, constrict 2d6+5, spells, spell-like abilities\line Special Qualities: Poison immunity, fire resistance 20\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +8
\line Abilities: Str 20, Dex 17, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 16, Cha 18\line Skills: Appraise +12, Concentration +12, Knowledge (arcana) +12, Listen +13, Perform (any ten) +14, Spellcraft +12, Wilderness Lore +17\line Feats: Combat Casting, Extend Spell
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or covey (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always chaotic good\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)
\par Lillends speak Celestial, Infernal, Abyssal, and Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spells: A lillend casts arcane spells as a 6th-level bard. Save DC is 14 + spell level.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-darkness, hallucinatory terrain, knock, and light; 1/day-charm person, speak with animals, and speak with plants. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 10th-level bard (save DC 14 + spell level).
\par A lillend also has the bardic music ability as a 6th-level bard.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the lillend must hit an opponent of up to Medium-size with its tail slap attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Constrict (Ex): A lillend deals 2d6+5 points of damage with a successful grapple check against opponents of up to Medium-size. This uses the entire lower portion of its body, so it ca
nnot take any move actions when constricting, though it can still attack with its sword.
\par Skills: Lillends receive a +4 racial bonus to Wilderness Lore checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Lizardfolk}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Aquatic, Reptilian)\line Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+5 natural) or 17 (+5 natural, +2_large shield)\line 
Attacks: 2 claws +2 melee (or morningstar +2 melee), bite +0 melee; or javelin +1 ranged\line Damage: Claw 1d4+1, morningstar 1d8+1, bite 1d4, or javelin 1d6+1\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +0\line 
Abilities: Str 13, Dex 10, Con 13, Int_9, Wis_10, Cha 10\line Skills: Balance +4, Jump +7, Swim +9\line Feats: Multiattack
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm marsh\line Organization: Gang (2-3), band (6-10 plus 50% noncombatants plus 1 leader of 3rd-6th level), or tribe (30-60 plus 2 lieutenants of 3rd-6th level and 1 leader of 4th-10th level)\line Challenge Rating: 1\line 
Treasure: 50% coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: By character class
\par Lizardfolk speak Draconic.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Skills: Thanks to their tails, lizardfolk receive a +4 racial bonus to Jump, Swim, and Balance checks (the numbers in the statistics block do not reflect check penalties for large shields).
\par }{\cs21\b Lizardfolk Characters}{
\par A lizardfolk\rquote s favored class is druid. Lizardfolk clerics (shamans) can choose any two of the following domains: Animal, Plant, and Water.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Locathah}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 2d8 (9 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 10 ft., swim 60 ft.\line AC: 14 (+1 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Longspear +1 melee; or light crossbow +2 ranged\line 
Damage: Longspear 1d8; or light crossbow 1d8\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +1, Will +1\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int_13, Wis 13, Cha 11\line Skills: Craft (any one) +3, Listen +4, Spot +4\line Fe
ats: Blind-Fight
\par Climate/Terrain: Warm aquatic\line Organization: Company (2-4), patrol (11-20 plus 2 3rd-level sergeants and 1 leader of 3rd-6th level), or tribe (30-100 plus 100% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 10 adults, 5 5th-level lieutenants, 
and 3 7th-level captains)\line Challenge Rating: 1/2\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: By character class
\par }{\cs21\b Locathah Characters}{
\par A locathah\rquote s favored class is barbarian. Locathah clerics can choose two of the following domains: Animal, Protection, and Water.
\par }}