{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Monsters (M)}{\subject SRD}
{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr11\min49}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min16}{\version9}{\edmins11}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords3522}{\nofchars20076}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (M)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par }{\cs19\i Magmin}{
\par Small Elemental (Fire)\line Hit Dice: 2d8 (9 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 14 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +2 natural)\line Attacks: Burning touch +1 melee\line Damage: Burning touch 1d8 fire and combustion\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Combustion, fiery aura\line Special Qualities: Elemental, fire subtype, melt weapons, damage reduction 15/+1\line Saves: Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +0\line 
Abilities: Str 9, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 8, Wis_10, Cha_10\line Skills: Climb +4, Escape Artist +5, Jump_+4, Spot +4
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary , gang (2-4), or squad (6-10)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: Standard coins; standard goods (nonflammables only); standard items (nonflammables only)\line 
Alignment: Always chaotic neutral\line Advancement: 3-4 HD (Small); 5-6 HD (Medium-size)
\par Magmins speak Ignan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Combustion (Ex): Anyone a magmin touches must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 11) or take an additional 1d8 points of fire damage as clothes ignite or armor becomes searing hot. The damage continues for another 1d4+2 rounds after the magmin\rquote s
 last successful attack. Magmins can also ignite flammable materials with a touch.
\par Fiery Aura (Ex): Anyone within 30 feet of a magmin must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 11) or suffer 1d6 points of heat damage from the intense heat. Treat this effect as an emanation.
\par Elemental: Immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Melt Weapons (Ex): Any metal weapon that strikes a magmin must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 11) or melt away into slag.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Manticore}{
\par Huge Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 6d10+24 (57 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (clumsy)\line AC: 16 (-2 size, +2 Dex, +6 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +9 melee, bite +7 melee; or 6 spikes +6 ranged\line 
Damage: Claw 2d4+5, bite 1d8+2; or spike 1d8+2\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spikes\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +7, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 20, Dex 15, Con 19, Int 7, Wis_12, Cha 9\line 
Skills: Listen +9, Spot +9*\line Feat: Multiattack
\par Climate/Terrain: Warm and temperate land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pride (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually lawful evil\line Advancement: 7-16 HD (Huge); 17-18 HD (Gargantuan)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A manticore begins most attacks with a volley of spikes, then closes. In the outdoors, it often uses its powerful wings to stay aloft during battle.
\par Spikes (Ex): With a snap of its tail, a manticore can loose a volley of six spikes as a standard action. Thi
s attack has a range of 180 feet with no range increment. A spike threatens a critical hit on a natural attack roll of 19 or 20. The creature can launch only twenty-four spikes in any one day.
\par Skills: *Manticores receive a +4 racial bo\-nus to Spot checks in daylight.
\par }{\cs19 Manticores speak Common.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Medusa}{
\par Medium-Size Monstrous Humanoid\line Hit Dice: 6d8 +6 (33 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Shortbow +8/+3 ranged; or dagger +6/+1 melee, snakes +3 melee\line Damage: Shortbow 1d6;
 or dagger 1d4, snakes 1d4 and poison\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Petrifying gaze, poison\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +7, Will +6\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha_15\line 
Skills: Bluff +11, Disguise +11, Move Silently +9, Spot_+10\line Feats: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Finesse (snakes)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or covey (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: Double standard\line Alignment: Usually lawful evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Petrifying Gaze (Su): Turn to stone permanently, 30 feet, Fortitude save (DC 15).
\par Poison (Ex): Snakes, Fortitude save (DC 14); initial damage 1d6 temporary Strength, secondary damage 2d6 temporary Strength.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Mephit}{
\par }{\fs20 Air Mephit\tab \tab \tab Dust Mephit\tab \tab \tab Earth Mephit
\par Small Outsider (Air)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Air)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Earth)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8 (13 hp)\tab \tab 3d8 (13 hp)\tab \tab \tab 3d8+3 (16 hp)
\par Initiative: +7 (+3 Dex,\tab \tab +7 (+3 Dex,\tab \tab \tab -1 (Dex)
\par +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed: 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect)\tab 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (perfect)\tab \tab 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)
\par AC: 17 (+1 size, +3 Dex, \tab \tab 17 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +3 natural)\tab 16 (+1 size, -1 Dex, +6 natural)
\par \tab +3 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab 2 claws +4 melee\tab \tab 2 claws +4 melee\tab \tab \tab 2 claws +7 melee
\par Damage: Claw 1d3\tab \tab Claw 1d3\tab \tab \tab Claw 1d3+3
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Breath weapon,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,
\par spell-like abilities, summon mephit\tab summon mephit\tab \tab \tab summon mephit
\par Special Qualities:\tab Fast healing 2,\tab Fast healing 2, damage\tab \tab Fast healing 2, damage
\par \tab damage reduction 5/+1\tab reduction 5/+1\tab \tab \tab reduction 10/+1
\par Saves:\tab Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +3\tab Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +3
\par Abilities: Str 10, Dex 17, Con 10,\tab Str 10, Dex 17, Con 10,\tab \tab Str 17, Dex 8, Con 13,
\par \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15
\par Skills: Bluff +6, Hide +12,\tab \tab Bluff +6, Hide +12, Listen +6,\tab Bluff +5, Hide +9, Listen +6,
\par Listen +6, Move Silently +9,\tab Move Silently +9, Spot +6\tab \tab Move Silently +5, Spot +6
\par Spot +6
\par Feats:\tab Improved Initiative\tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab Power Attack
\par \tab 
\par Fire Mephit\tab \tab \tab Ice Mephit\tab \tab \tab Magma Mephit
\par Small Outsider (Fire)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Air, Cold)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Fire)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8 (13 hp)\tab \tab 3d8 (13 hp)\tab \tab \tab 3d8 (13 hp)
\par Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex,\tab \tab +7 (+3 Dex,\tab \tab \tab +5 (+1 Dex, 
\par +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed: 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average)\tab 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (perfect)\tab \tab 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average)
\par AC: 16 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural) 18 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +4 natural)\tab 16 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab 2 claws +4 melee\tab \tab 2 claws +4 melee\tab \tab \tab 2 claws +4 melee
\par Damage: Claw 1d3 and 2 fire\tab Claw 1d3 and 2 cold\tab \tab Claw 1d3 and 2 fire
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Breath weapon,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,
\par spell-like abilities, summon mephit\tab summon mephit\tab \tab \tab summon mephit
\par Special Qualities:\tab Fire subtype,\tab Cold subtype, fast healing 2,\tab Fire subtype, fast healing 2,
\par fast healing 2, damage\tab \tab damage reduction 5/+1\tab \tab damage reduction 5/+1
\par reduction 5/+1
\par Saves: Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +3\tab Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +3
\par Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10,\tab Str 10, Dex 17, Con 10,\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10,
\par \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15
\par Skills: Bluff +5, Hide +11,\tab \tab Bluff +6, Hide +12, Listen +6,\tab Bluff +5, Hide +11, Listen +6,
\par Listen +6, Move Silently +7,\tab Move Silently +9, Spot +6\tab \tab Move Silently +7, Spot +6
\par Spot +6
\par Feats: Improved Initiative\tab \tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par \tab \tab \tab 
\par Ooze Mephit\tab \tab \tab Salt Mephit\tab \tab \tab Steam Mephit
\par Small Outsider (Water)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Earth)\tab \tab Small Outsider (Fire)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\tab \tab 3d8+3 (16 hp)\tab \tab \tab 3d8 (13 hp)
\par Initiative: +0\tab \tab \tab -1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab +5 (+1 Dex, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 +4 Improved Initiative)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Speed: 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)\tab 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)\tab \tab 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (average)
\par AC: 16 (+1 size, +5 natural)\tab 16 (+1 size, -1 Dex, +6 natural)\tab 16 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  2 claws +6 melee\tab 2 claws +7 melee\tab \tab \tab 2 claws +4 melee
\par Damage: Claw 1d3+2\tab \tab Claw 1d3+3\tab \tab \tab Claw 1d3 and 2 fire
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Breath weapon,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,\tab Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,
\par spell-like abilities, summon mephit\tab summon mephit\tab \tab \tab summon mephit
\par Special Qualities:\tab Fast healing 2,\tab Fast healing 2, damage\tab \tab Fire subtype, fast healing 2,
\par damage reduction 5/+1\tab \tab reduction 10/+1\tab \tab \tab damage reduction 5/+1
\par Saves: Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +3\tab Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +3
\par Abilities: Str 14, Dex 10, Con 13,\tab Str 17, Dex 8, Con 13,\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10,
\par \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15\tab \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15
\par Skills: Bluff +6, Hide +9, \tab \tab Bluff +6, Hide +8, Listen +6,\tab Bluff +6, Hide +11, Listen +6,
\par Listen +6, Move Silently +6,\tab Move Silently +5, Spot +6\tab \tab Move Silently +6, Spot +6
\par Spot +6
\par Feats: Power Attack\tab \tab Power Attack\tab \tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par \tab 
\par Water Mephit
\par Small Outsider (Water)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)
\par Initiative: +0
\par Speed:\tab 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)
\par AC: 16 (+1 size, +5 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  2 claws +6 melee
\par Damage: Claw 1d3+2
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks: Breath weapon, spell-like abilities,
\par \tab \tab summon mephit
\par Special Qualities:\tab Fast healing 2, damage reduction 5/+1
\par Saves:\tab \tab Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +3
\par Abilities:\tab Str 14, Dex 10, Con 13,
\par \tab \tab Int 12, Wis 11, Cha 15
\par Skills:\tab \tab Bluff +6, Hide +9, Listen +6,
\par \tab \tab Move Silently +6, Spot +6
\par Feats:\tab \tab Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: \tab Any land and underground
\par Organization: \tab Solitary (1), gang (2-4 mephits of mixed types), or swarm (5-12 mephits of mixed types)
\par Challenge Rating: 3
\par Treasure: \tab Standard
\par Alignment: \tab Usually neutral
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Advancement:\tab 4-6 HD (Small); 7-9 HD (Medium-size)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Mephits}{
\par Breath Weapon: A mephit can use its breath weapon once every 1d4 rounds as a standard action. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: All mephits have one or more spell-like abilities (save DC 12 + spell level). See the individual descriptions for details.
\par Summon Mephit (Sp): Once per day, all mephits can summon other mephits much as though casting a summon monster spell, but they have only a 25% chance of success to summon one meph
it of the same type. Roll d%: On a failure, no creature answers the summons. A mephit that has just been summoned cannot use its own summon ability for 1 hour.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): Mephits heal 2 points of damage each round, provided they are still alive and certain other conditions are met. See the individual descriptions for details.
\par }{\cs19\i Air Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of dust and grit, 15 feet; damage 1d8, Reflex half DC 12.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour an air mephit can surround itself with vapor, duplicating the effects of a blur spell as cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer. Once per day it can use gust of wind as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): An air mephit heals only if exposed to moving air, be it a breeze, a draft, a spell effect, or even the mephit fanning itself.
\par }{\cs19\i Dust Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of irritating particles, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living creatures that fail their saves are tormented by itching skin and burning eyes. This imposes a -4 morale
 penalty to AC and a -2 morale penalty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour a dust mephit can surround itself with a plume of dust, duplicating the effects of a blur spell cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer. Once per day it can creat
e a mass of roiling dust that duplicates the effect of wind wall as cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A dust mephit heals only if in an arid, dusty environment.
\par }{\cs19\i Earth Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of rock shards and pebbles, 15 feet; damage 1d8, Reflex half DC 12.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/hour-enlarge; 1/day-soft\-en earth and stone. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): An earth mephit heals only if it is underground or buried up to its waist in earth.
\par }{\cs19\i Fire Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of fire, 15 feet; damage 1d8, Reflex half DC 12.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/hour-magic missile as the spell cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer; 1/day-heat metal as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A fire mephit heals only if it is touching a flame at least as large as a torch.
\par }{\cs19\i Ice Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone
 of ice shards, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living creatures that fail their saves are tormented by frostbitten skin and frozen eyes unless they are immune to or protected from cold. This imposes a -4 morale penalty to AC and a -2 morale penal
ty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/hour-magic missile as the spell cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer; 1/day-chill metal as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Cold Subtype (Ex): Cold immunity; double damage from fire except on a successful save.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): An ice mephit heals only if it is touching a piece of ice of at least Tiny size or if the ambient temperature is freezing or below.
\par }{\cs19\i Magma Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of magma, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living 
creatures that fail their saves are tormented by burned skin and seared eyes unless they are immune to or protected from fire. This imposes a -4 morale penalty to AC and a -2 morale penalty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour, a magma mephit can shape\-change into a pool of lava 3 feet in diameter and 6 inches deep. The mephit\rquote s damage reduction improves to 20/+1. The mephit can\rquote 
t attack while in lava form but can use other spell-like abilities. It can move at a speed of 10 feet, but it can\rquote t "run." In this form the mephit can pass through small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks. The pool\rquote 
s touch ignites flammable materials such as paper, straw, or dry wood.
\par Once per day a magma mephit can use pyrotechnics as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer. It can use itself as the fire source without harm.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A magma mephit heals only if it is touching magma, lava, or a flame at least as large as a torch.
\par }{\cs19\i Ooze Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of caustic liquid, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living creatures that fail their saves are tormented by itching skin and burning eyes. This imposes a -4 morale penalty to AC and a 
-2 morale penalty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour an ooze mephit can hurl an acidic blob that functions like Melf\rquote s acid arrow cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer. Once per day it can create a mass of smelly fog that duplicates t
he effect of stinking cloud as cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): An ooze mephit heals only if in a wet or muddy environment.
\par }{\cs19\i Salt Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of salt crystals, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living creatures that
 fail their saves are tormented by itching skin and burning eyes. This imposes a -4 morale penalty to AC and a -2 morale penalty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour a salt mephit can use glitterdust as the spell cast by a 3rd-
level sorcerer. Once per day it can draw the moisture from an area in a 20-foot radius centered on itself. Living creatures within range take 2d8 points of damage (Fortitude half DC 15). This is especially devastating to aquatic creatures and plants, whic
h receive a -2 racial penalty to their saving throws.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A salt mephit heals only if in an arid environment.
\par }{\cs19\i Steam Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of steam, 10 feet; damage 1d4, Reflex half DC 12. Living creatures that fail their saves are t
ormented by burned skin and seared eyes unless they are immune to or protected from fire. This imposes a -4 morale penalty to AC and a -2 morale penalty to attack rolls for 3 rounds.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour a steam mephit can surround itself wi
th a plume of vapor, duplicating the effects of a blur spell cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer. Once per day it can create a rainstorm of boiling water that affects an area 20 feet square. Living creatures caught in the storm take 2d6 points of damage (Reflex 
half DC 15).
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A steam mephit heals only if it is touching boiling water or is in a hot, humid area.
\par }{\cs19\i Water Mephit}{
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of caustic liquid, 15 feet; damage 1d8, Reflex half DC 12.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour a water mephit can hurl an acidic blob that functions like Melf\rquote s acid arrow cast by a 3rd-level sorcerer. Once per day it can create a mass of smelly fog that duplicates the 
effect of stinking cloud as cast by a 6th-level sorcerer.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A water mephit heals only if it is exposed to rain or submerged up to its waist in water.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Merfolk}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 1d8+1 (5 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 5 ft., swim 50 ft.\line AC: 13 (+1 Dex, +2 leather)\line Attacks: Trident +1 melee; or heavy crossbow +2 ranged\line 
Damage: Trident 1d8; or heavy crossbow 1d10\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Low-light vision\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +1, Will +0\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 13\line Skills: Listen +4, Spot +4
\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate aquatic\line Organization: Company (2-4), patrol (11-20 plus 2 3rd-level \line lieutenants and 1 leader of 3rd-6th level), or band (30-60 p
lus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, 5 5th-level lieutenants, 3 7th-level captains, and 10 porpoises)\line Challenge Rating: 1/2\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: By character class
\par Merfolk speak Common and Aquan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Merfolk favor heavy crossbows of shell and coral that fire bolts fashioned from blowfish spines, with an underwater range of 30 yards. Merfolk often barrage their enemies before closing, when they resort to tridents.
\par }{\cs21\b Merfolk Characters}{
\par A merfolk\rquote s favored class is bard. Merfolk clerics can choose two of the following domains: Animal, Protection, and Water.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Mimic}{
\par Large Aberration\line Hit Dice: 7d8+21 (52 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 10 ft.\line AC: 13 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +8 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d8+6\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Adhesive
\line Special Qualities: Mimic shape, acid immunity\line Saves: Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +6\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 17, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 10\line Skills: Climb +9, Disguise +12, Listen +11, Spot_+6\line Feats: Skill Focus (Disguise)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)
\par Mimics speak Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A mimic often surprises the unsuspecting adventurer, lashing out with a heavy pseudopod. Mimics are smart enough to avoid fights to the death by extorting treasure or food from a party.
\par Adhesive (Ex): A mimic exudes a thick slime that acts as a powerful adhesiv
e, holding fast any creatures or items touching it. An adhesive-covered mimic automatically grapples any creature it hits with its slam attack. Opponents so grappled cannot get free while the mimic is alive without removing the adhesive first. A mimic mak
e
s one automatic slam attack each round against any creature stuck to it. A weapon that strikes an adhesive-coated mimic is also stuck fast unless the wielder succeeds at a Reflex save (DC 16). A successful Strength check (DC 16) is needed to pry it off. S
trong alcohol dissolves the adhesive. A pint of wine or a similar liquid weakens it, but the mimic still has a +4 bonus to grapple checks. A mimic can dissolve its adhesive at will, and the substance breaks down 5 rounds after the creature dies.
\par Mimic Shape
 (Ex): A mimic can assume the general shape of any object that fills roughly 150 cubic feet (5 feet by 5 feet by 6 feet), such as a massive chest, a stout bed, or a wide door frame. The creature cannot substantially alter its size, though. A mimic\rquote 
s body is hard and has a rough texture, no matter what appearance it might present. Anyone who examines the mimic can detect the ruse with a successful Spot check opposed by the mimic\rquote 
s Disguise check. Of course, by this time it is generally far too late.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Minotaur}{
\par Large Monstrous Humanoid\line Hit Dice: 6d8+12 (39 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 14 (-1 size, +5 natural)\line Attacks: Huge greataxe +9/+4 melee, gore +4 melee\line Damage: Huge greataxe 2d8+6, gore 1d8+2\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Charge 4d6+6\line Special Qualities: Scent, natural cunning\line Saves: Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 10, Con 15, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha_8\line 
Skills: Intimidate +5, Jump +8, Listen +8, Search +6, Spot +8\line Feats: Great Fortitude, Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary or gang (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually chaotic evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par Minotaurs speak Giant.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Charge (Ex): A minotaur typically begins a battle by charging at an oppo
nent, lowering its head to bring its mighty horns into play. In addition to the normal benefits and hazards of a charge, this allows the beast to make a single gore attack that deals 4d6+6 points of damage.
\par Natural Cunning (Ex): Although minotaurs are not 
especially intelligent, they possess innate cunning and logical ability. This makes them immune to maze spells, prevents them from ever becoming lost, and enables them to track enemies. Further, they are never caught flat-footed.
\par Skills: Minotaurs receive a +4 racial bonus to Search, Spot, and Listen checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Mohrg}{
\par Medium-Size Undead\line Hit Dice: 14d12 (91 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: 2 slams +12 melee, tongue touch +7 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d6+5, tongue paralysis\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, paralyzing touch, create spawn\line Special Qualities: Undead\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +5, Will_+9\line Abilities: Str 21, Dex 13, Con -, Int_11, Wis 10, Cha_10\line Skills: 
Climb +11, Hide +15, Listen +12, Move Silently +15, Spot +12, Swim +10\line Feats: Alertness, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Mobility
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or mob (2-4 plus 5-10 zombies)\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: 15-21 HD (Medium-size); 22-28 HD (Large)

\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Like zombies, mohrgs attack by slamming enemies with their powerful fists. They often catch opponents flat-footed, for they move much faster than zombies.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the mohrg must hit with its slam attack.
\par Paralyzing Touch (Su): A mohrg lashes out with its tongue in combat. An opponent the tongue touches must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 17) or become paralyzed for 1d4 minutes.
\par Create Spawn (Su): Creatures killed by a mohrg rise after 1d4 days as zombies under the morhg\rquote s control. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Mummy}{
\par Medium-Size Undead\line Hit Dice: 6d12+3 (42 hp)\line Initiative: -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 17 (-1 Dex, +8 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +6 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d6+4 and mummy rot\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Despair, mummy rot\line Special Qualities: Undead, resistant to blows, damage reduction 5/+1, fire vulnerability\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +1, Will +7\line Abilities: Str 17, Dex 8, Con -, Int_6, Wis 14, Cha 15\line 
Skills: Hide +8, Listen +9 Move Silently +8, Spot +9\line Feats: Alertness, Toughness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any desert and underground\line Organization: Solitary, wardens (2-4), or guardians (6-10)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 7-12 HD (Medium-size); 13-18 HD (Large)

\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Despair (Su): At the mere sight of a mummy, the viewer must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or be paralyzed with fear for 1d4 rounds. Whether or not the save is successful, that creature cannot be affected again by that mummy\rquote 
s despair ability for one day.
\par Mummy Rot (Su): Supernatural disease [slam, Fortitude save (DC 20), incubation period 1 day; damage 1d6 temporary Constitut
ion.] Unlike normal diseases, mummy rot continues until the victim reaches Constitution 0 (and dies) or receives a remove disease spell or similar magic. An afflicted creature that dies shrivels away into sand and dust that blow away into nothing at the f
irst wind unless both a remove disease and raise dead are cast on the remains within 6 rounds.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Resistant to Blows (Ex): Physical attacks deal only half damage to mummies. Apply this effect before damage reduction.
\par Fire Vulnerability (Ex): A mummy takes double damage from fire attacks unless a save is allowed for half damage. A successful save halves the damage and a failure doubles it.
\par }}