{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title MONSTERS (R)}{\author asmith}
{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr14\min10}{\revtim\yr2002\mo9\dy12\hr13\min57}{\version7}{\edmins5}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1890}{\nofchars10773}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{
\par MONSTERS (R)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par }{\cs19\i Rakshasa}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Evil, Lawful)\line Hit Dice: 7d8+21 (52 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft.\line AC: 21 (+2 Dex, +9 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +8 melee, bite +3 melee\line Damage: Claw 1d4+1, bite 1d6\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Detect thoughts, spells\line Special Qualities: Alternate form, spell immunity, vulnerable to blessed crossbow bolts, damage reduction 20/+3\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +6\line 
Abilities: Str 12, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 17\line Skills: Bluff +16*, Disguise +17*, Listen +11, Move Silently +11, Perform (ballad, chant, drama, epic, plus any other five) +12, Sense Motive +10, Spot +12\line Feats: Alertness, Dodge
\par Climate/Terrain: Warm forest and marsh\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 9\line Treasure: Standard coins; double goods; standard items\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 8-14 HD (Medium-size)
\par Rakshasas speak Common, Infernal, and Undercommon.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Detect Thoughts (Su): A rakshasa can continuously detect thoughts as the spell cast by an 18th-level sorcerer (save DC 15). It can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
\par Spells: A rakshasa casts spells as a 7th-level sorcerer, and can also cast 1st-level cleric spells as arcane spells.
\par Alternate Form (Su): A rakshasa can assume any humanoid form, or revert to its own form, as a standard action. This ability is similar to the alter self spell cast by an 18th-level sorcerer, but the rakshasa can remain in the new form indefinitely.
\par Spell Immunity (Su): Rakshasas ignore the effects of spells and spell-like abilities of 8th level or less, just as if the spellcaster had failed to overcome spell resistance.
\par Vulnerable to Blessed Crossbow Bolts (Ex): Any hit scored with a blessed crossbow bolt instantly slays a rakshasa.
\par Skills: A rakshasa receives a +4 racial bonus to Bluff and Disguise checks. *When using alternate form, it gains an additional +10 circumstance bonus to Disguise checks. If reading an opponent\rquote s mind, its circumstance bonus
 to Bluff and Disguise checks increases by a further +4.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Rast}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Fire)\line Hit Dice: 4d8+4 (22 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: Fly 50 ft. (good)\line AC: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: 4 claws +6 melee; or bite +6 melee\line 
Damage: Claw 1d4+2; or bite 1d8+3\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Paralyzing gaze, improved grab, blood drain\line Special Qualities: Fire subtype, flight\line Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +5\line 
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 3, Wis 13, Cha 12\line Skills: Hide +5, Listen +7, Move Silently +7\line Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or swarm (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 5-6 HD (Medium-size); 7-12 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Rasts attack in swarms, with a frightening, brutal cunning. The creatures paralyze as many of their foes as possible, then attack any that are still moving. A rast can claw or bite, but cannot do both during the same round.
\par Paralyzing Gaze (Su): Paralysis for 1d6 rounds, 30 feet, Fortitude save (DC 13).
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the rast must hit with its bite attack.
\par Blood Drain (Ex): A rast drains blood from a grabbed opponent, dealing 1 point of temporary Constitution damage each round it maintains the hold.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Flight (Su): A rast can fly as the spell cast by an 11th-level sorcerer, as a free action. A rast that loses this ability falls and can perform only partial actions.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Ravid}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider\line Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: Fly 60 ft. (perfect)\line AC: 25 (+15 natural)\line Attacks: Tail slap +4 melee, claw +2 melee\line Damage: Tail slap 1d6+1 and positive energy, claw 1d4 and positive energy
\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Positive energy lash, animate objects\line Special Qualities: Fire immunity, flight\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 13, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 14\line 
Skills: Listen +7, Move Silently +6, Spot +7\line Feats: Multiattack*
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary (1 plus at least 1 animated object)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 4 HD (Medium-size); 5-9 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Ravids fight only in self-defense. A ravid itself is not very powerful but is always accompanied by at least one animated object that defends it.
\par Positive Energy Lash (Su): A ravid can make a touch attack or hit with a claw or tail slap attack to infuse a target with positive energy. The energy produces an unpleasant tingle in living creatures, and against undead foes (even in\-
corporeal ones) it deals 2d10 points of damage.
\par Animate Objects (Su): Once per round, a random object within 20 feet of the ravid animates as though by the spell animate objects cast by a 20th-level cleric. These objects defend the ravid to the best of their ability, but the ravid isn\rquote 
t intelligent enough to give them specific commands.
\par Flight (Su): A ravid can fly as the spell cast by an 11th-level sorcerer, as a free action. A ravid that loses this ability falls and can perform only partial actions.
\par Feats: *Ravids have the Multiattack feat even through they do not have the requisite three natural weapons.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Remorhaz}{
\par Huge Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 7d10+35 (73 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., burrow 20 ft.\line AC: 20 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +11 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +13 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d8+12\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Improved grab, swallow whole\line Special Qualities: Heat, tremorsense\line Saves: Fort +10, Ref +6, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 26, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 10\line Skills: Listen +10, Spot +9\line Feats: Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any cold land\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Huge); 11-21 HD (Gargantuan)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Remorhazes hide under the snow and ice until they hear movement above them, then attack from below and surprise prey.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the remorhaz must hit with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can attempt to swallow the opponent.
\par Swallow Whole (Ex): A remorhaz can try to swallow a grabbed opponent of Large or smaller size by making a succe
ssful grapple check. Once inside, the opponent takes 2d8+12 points of crushing damage plus 10d10 points of fire damage per round from the creature\rquote 
s flaming gizzard. A swallowed creature can cut its way out by using a light slashing or piercing weapong to deal 25 points of damage to the remorhaz\rquote 
s gizzard (AC 20). Once the creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must cut its own way out. The remorhaz\rquote s interior can hold one Large, four Medium-size, sixteen Small, or sixty-four Tiny or smaller opponents.

\par Heat (Ex): An enraged remorhaz generates heat so intense that anything touching its body takes 10d10 points of fire damage. This is usually enough to melt nonmagical weapons, but magic weapons get a Fortitude save (DC 18).
\par Tremorsense (Ex): A remorhaz can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par Skills: Remorhazes receive a +4 racial bonus to Listen checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Roc}{
\par Gargantuan Beast\line Hit Dice: 18d10+126 (225 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft., fly 80 ft. (average)\line AC: 14 (-4 size, +2 Dex, +6 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +21 melee, bite +16 melee\line Damage: Claw 2d6+12, bite 2d8+6\line 
Face/Reach: 20 ft. by 40 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Snatch\line Saves: Fort +18, Ref +13, Will +7\line Abilities: Str 34, Dex 15, Con 24, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha_11\line Skills: Listen +7, Spot +7*
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm mountains\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Rating: 9\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 19-32 HD (Gargantuan); 33-54 (Colossal)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A roc attacks from the air, swooping earthward to snatch prey in its powerful talons and carry it off for itself and its young to devour. A solitary roc is typically hunting and will attack any Medium-size or larger creature that appea
rs edible. A mated pair of rocs attack in concert, fighting to the death to defend their nests or hatchlings.
\par Snatch (Ex): A roc that hits a creature of at least Small size, but no larger than Huge, with a claw attack attempts to start a grapple as a free 
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. If the roc achieves a hold, it can fly off with its prey and automatically make a bite attack each round in lieu of a claw attack. It can drop a snatched creature as a free action or use a standard action
 to fling it aside. A flung creature travels 90 feet and takes 9d6 points of damage. If the roc flings it while flying, the creature suffers this amount of damage or falling damage, whichever is greater.
\par Skills: *Rocs receive a +4 racial bonus to Spot checks during daylight hours.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Roper}{
\par Large Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 10d10+30 (85 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 10 ft.\line AC: 24 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +14 natural)\line Attacks: 6 strands +11 ranged, bite +8 melee\line 
Damage: Strand (see text), bite 2d6+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft. (50 ft. with strand)\line Special Attacks: Strands, attach, weakness\line Special Qualities: Electricity immunity, cold resistance 30, fire vulnerability, SR 28\line 
Saves: Fort +10, Ref +8, Will +8\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 13, Con 17, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha_12\line Skills: Climb +7, Hide +10*, Listen +13, Spot +13\line Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Weapon Focus (strand)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or cluster (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 10\line Treasure: No coins; 50% goods (stone only); _no items\line Alignment: Usually chaotic evil\line 
Advancement: 11-15 HD (Large); 16-30 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A roper hunts by standing very still and imitating a bit of rock. This usually allows it to attack with surprise. When it notices prey, it lashes out with its strands and bites adjacent opponents with its powerful maw.
\par Strands (Ex): Most encounters with a roper begin when it fires its strong, sticky strands. The creature has six such members tha
t can strike up to 50 feet away (no range increment). A single attack with a slashing weapon that deals at least 10 points of damage severs a strand (AC 20).
\par Ropers speak Terran and Undercommon
\par Attach (Ex): If a roper hits with a strand attack, the strand latches onto the opponent\rquote 
s body. This deals no damage but draws the stuck opponent 10 feet closer each subsequent round (no attack of opportunity) unless that creature breaks free, which requires a successful Escape Artist check (DC 23) or Strength check 
(DC 19). The roper can draw in a creature within 10 feet of itself and bite with a +4 attack bonus, in that round.
\par Weakness (Ex): A roper\rquote s strands can sap an opponent\rquote s strength. Anyone caught by a strand must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 18) or take 2d8 points of temporary Strength damage.
\par Fire Vulnerability (Ex): A roper takes double damage from fire attacks unless a save is allowed for half damage. A successful save halves the damage and a failure doubles it.
\par Skills: *Ropers receive a +8 racial bonus to Hide checks in stony or icy areas.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Rust Monster}{
\par Medium-Size Aberration\line Hit Dice: 5d8+5 (27 hp)\line Initiative: +3 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft.\line AC: 18 (+3 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: Antennae touch +3 melee, bite -2 melee\line Damage: Antennae touch rust, bite 1d3\line Face/Re
ach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Rust\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha_8\line Skills: Listen +9, Spot +9\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 6-8 HD (Medium-size); 9-15 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A rust monster can scent a metal object up to 90 feet away, dashing toward the source and attempting to strike it with its a
ntennae. The creature is relentless, chasing adventurers over long distances if they still possess intact metal objects but usually ceasing its attacks to devour a freshly rusted meal. A clever (or desperate) adventurer can often distract a hungry rust mo
nster by tossing it some metal objects, then fleeing while it consumes them.
\par The creature targets the largest metal object available, striking first at armor, then shields and smaller items. It prefers ferrous metals (steel or iron) over precious met\-als (s
uch as gold or silver) but will devour the latter if given the opportunity.
\par Rust (Ex): A rust monster that makes a successful touch attack with its antennae causes the target metal to corrode, falling to pieces and becoming useless immediately. The size of
 the object is immaterial-a full suit of armor rusts away as quickly as a sword. Magic armor and weapons, and other enchanted items made of metal, must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 20) or be dissolved. A metal weapon that deals damage to a rust monster al
so corrodes immediately. Wooden, stone, and other nonmetallic weapons are unaffected.
\par }}