{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title MONSTERS (U, V & W)}{\author asmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr16\min33}{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy9\hr9\min30}{\version6}{\edmins4}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2450}{\nofchars13966}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (U, V & W)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Unicorn}{
\par Large Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 4d10+20 (42 hp)\line Initiative: +3 (Dex)\line Speed: 60 ft.\line AC: 18 (-1 size, +3 Dex, +6 natural)\line Attacks: Horn +11 melee, 2 hooves +3 melee\line Damage: Horn 1d8+8, hoof 1d4+2\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft. (10 ft. with horn)\line Special Qualities: Magic circle against evil, spell-like abilities, immunities\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +7, Will +6\line Abilities: Str 20, Dex 17, Con 21, Int 10, Wis 21, Cha 24\line 
Skills: Animal Empathy +11, Listen +11, Move Silently +9, Spot +11, Wilderness Lore +9*\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate forest\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or grace (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always chaotic good\line Advancement: 5-8 HD (Large)
\par Evil and unscrupulous beings sometimes hunt a unicorn for its horn, which can fetch up to 2,000 gp, for use in various healing potions and devices.
\par Unicorns speak Sylvan and Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par They either charge, impaling foes with their horns like lances, or strike with their hooves. The horn is a +3 magic weapon, though its power fades if removed from the unicorn.
\par Magic Circle against Evil (Su): This ability continuously duplicates the effects of the spell. The unicorn cannot suppress this ability.
\par Spell-Like
 Abilities: Unicorns can detect evil at will as a free action. Once per day a unicorn can use teleport without error to move anywhere within its home. It cannot teleport beyond the forest boundaries nor back from outside. A unicorn can use cure light woun
ds three times per day and cure moderate wounds once per day, as cast by a 5th-level druid, by touching a wounded creature with its horn. Once per day it can use neutralize poison, as cast by an 8th-level druid, with a touch of its horn.
\par Immunities (Ex): Unicorns are immune to all poisons and to charm and hold spells or abilities.
\par Skills: *Unicorns receive a +3 competence bonus to Wilderness Lore checks within the boundaries of their forest.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Vampire Spawn}{
\par Medium-Size Undead\line Hit Dice: 4d12 (26 hp)\line Initiative: +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +5 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d6+4 and energy drain\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Charm, energy drain, blood drain\line Special Qualities: Undead, +2 turn resistance, damage reduction 10/silver, cold and electricity resistance 10, gaseous form, spider climb, fast healing 2\line 
Saves: Fort +1, Ref +5, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 16, Dex 14, Con -, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 14\line Skills: Bluff +8, Climb +8, Craft (any one) or 
Profession (any one) +10, Hide +10, Jump +8, Listen +11, Move Silently +11, Search +8, Sense Motive +11, Spot +11\line Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Lightning \-Reflexes, Skill Focus (any Craft or Profession)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or pack (2-5)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: -
\par Vampire spawn speak Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Vampire spawn use their inhuman strength when engaging mortals, hammering their foes with powerful blows and dashing them against rocks or walls. They also use their gaseous form and flight abilities to strike where opponents are most vulnerable.
\par Charm (Su): This is similar to the vampire\rquote s domination ability, but the save DC is 14, and the effect is similar to charm person as cast by a 5th-level sorcerer. A charmed subject allows the vampire spawn to drain his or her blood (see below).

\par Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a vampire spawn\rquote s slam attack receive one negative level. The Fortitude save to remove the negative level has a DC of 14.
\par Blood Drain (Ex): A vampire spawn can suck blood from a living victim with its fangs by making a successful grapple check. If it pins the foe, it drains blood, inflicting 1d4 points of permanent Constitution drain each round.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Gaseous Form (Su): As a standard action, a vampire spawn can assume gaseous form at will, as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer, but it can remain gaseous indefinitely and has a fly speed of 20 feet with perfect maneuverability.
\par Spider Climb (Ex): A vampire spawn can climb sheer surfaces as though with a spider climb spell.
\par Fast Healing (Ex): A vampire spawn heals 2 points of damage each round so long as it has at least 1 hit point. If reduced to 0 hit points in combat, it automatically assumes gaseous form and attempts to escape. It must reach 
its coffin home within 2 hours or be utterly destroyed. Once at rest in its coffin, it regains 1 hit point after 1 hour, then resumes healing at the rate of 2 hit points per round.
\par Skills: Vampire spawn receive a +4 racial bonus to Bluff, Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs21\b Repelling and Slaying Vampire Spawn}{
\par Vampire spawn are equally vulnerable to attacks that slay vampires.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Vargouille}{
\par Small Outsider (Evil)\line Hit Dice: 1d8+1 (5 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: Fly 30 ft. (good)\line AC: 12 (+1 size, +1 Dex)\line Attacks: Bite +3 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d4 and poison\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Shriek, poison, kiss\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con_12, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 8\line Skills: Listen +4, Spot +3\line Feats: Weapon Finesse (bite)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Cluster (2-5) or swarm (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 2-3 HD (Small)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Shriek (Su): Instead of biting, a vargouille can open its distended mouth and let out a terrible shriek. Those within 60 feet (except other vargouilles) who both hear the shriek and can clearly see the creature must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 12) or 
be paralyzed with fear until the monster attacks them, goes out of range, or leaves their sight. A paralyzed creature is susceptible to the vargouille\rquote s kiss. If the save is successful, that opponent cannot be affected again by that vargouille
\rquote s shriek for one day.
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 12) or be unable to heal the bite damage naturally or magically. A neutralize poison or heal spell removes the effect, while delay poison allows magical healing.
\par Kiss (Su): A vargouille can kiss a paralyzed ta
rget with a successful melee touch attack, beginning a terrible transformation. The affected opponent must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 19) or begin to transform, losing all his or her hair 1d6 hours later. After another 1d6 hours, the ears grow into l
e
athery wings, tentacles sprout on the chin and scalp, and the teeth become long, pointed fangs. During the next 1d6 hours, the victim suffers 1d6 points of permanent Intelligence and Charisma drain. The transformation is complete 1d6 hours later, when the
 head breaks free of the body (which promptly dies) and becomes a vargouille. This transformation is interrupted by sunlight, and even a daylight spell can delay death, but to reverse the transformation requires remove disease.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Wight}{
\par Medium-Size Undead\line Hit Dice: 4d12 (26 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +3 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d4+1 and energy drain\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Energy drain, create spawn\line Special Qualities: Undead\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +2, Will_+5\line Abilities: Str 12, Dex 12, Con_-, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 15\line Skills: Climb +5, Hide +8, Listen +8, Move Silently +16, \line 
Search +7, Spot +8\line Feats: Blind-Fight
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-5), or pack (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always lawful_evil\line Advancement: 5-8 HD (Medium-size)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a wight\rquote s slam attack receive one negative level. The Fortitude save to remove the negative level has a DC of 14.
\par Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a wight becomes a wight in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under the command of the wight that created them and remain enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Skills: Wights receive a +8 racial bonus to Move Silently checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Will-o\rquote -wisp}{
\par Small Aberration (Air)\line Hit Dice: 9d8 (40 hp)\line Initiative: +13 (+9 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: Fly 50 ft. (perfect)\line AC: 29 (+1 size, +9 Dex, +9 deflection)\line Attacks: Shock +16 melee\line Damage: Shock 2d8\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Spell immunity, natural invisibility\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +12, Will +9\line Abilities: Str -, Dex 29, Con 10, Int_15, Wis 16, Cha 12\line Skills: Bluff +11, Listen +17, Search_+14, Spot +17
\line Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Dodge, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any swamp\line Organization: Solitary or string (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: 1/10 coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: 10-18 HD (Small)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spell Immunity (Ex): The only spells that can affect will-o\rquote -wisps are magic circle against chaos, magic circle against evil, magic missile, maze, protection from chaos, and protection from evil.
\par Natural Invisibility (Ex): A startled or frightened will-o\rquote -wisp can extinguish its glow, effectively becoming invisible as the spell.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Winter Wolf}{
\par Large Magical Beast (Cold)\line Hit Dice: 6d10+18 (51 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 50 ft.\line AC: 15 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +9 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d8+6\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Breath weapon, trip\line Special Qualities: Scent, cold subtype\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 18, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 9, Wis 13, Cha 10\line 
Skills: Hide +6*, Listen +9, Move Silently +7, Spot +9, Wilderness Lore +1*\line Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any cold land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (2-5)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: 1/10 coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 7-9 HD (Large); 10-18 HD (Huge)

\par Winter wolves can speak Giant and Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Winter wolves typically hunt in packs. Their size, cunning, and formidable breath weapon allow them to hunt and kill creatures much larger than themselves. A pack usually circles an opponent, each wolf attacking in turn to exhaust it. If they\rquote 
re in a hurry, white wolves try to pin their foes.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Cone of cold, 15 ft., every 1d4 rounds; damage 4d6, Reflex half DC 16. Winter wolves can use their breath weapon while biting.
\par Trip (Ex): A winter wolf that hits with a bite attack can attempt to trip the opponent as a free action without making a touch attack or provoking an attack of opportunity. If the attempt fails, the opponent cannot react to trip the winter wolf.
\par Cold Subtype: Cold immunity; double damage from fire except on a successful save.
\par Skills: Winter wolves receive a +1 racial bonus to Listen, Move Silently, and Spot checks, and a +2 racial bonus to Hide checks. *Their natural coloration grants winter wolve
s a +7 racial bonus to Hide checks in areas of snow and ice. A winter wolf has a +4 racial bonus to Wilderness Lore checks when tracking by scent.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Worg}{
\par Medium-Size Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 4d10+8 (30 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 50 ft.\line AC: 14 (+2 Dex, +2 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +7 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6+4\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Trip
\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +6, Ref +6, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 17, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 6, Wis 14, Cha 10\line Skills: Hide +7, Listen +9, Move Silently +7, Spot_+9, Wilderness Lore +2*\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any forest, hill, plains, and mountains\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: 1/10 coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Ad
vancement: 5-6 HD (Medium-size); 7-12 HD (Large)
\par More intelligent than their smaller cousins, worgs speak their own language. Some can also speak Common and Goblin.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Mated pairs work together to bring down large game, while lone worgs usually chase d
own creatures smaller than themselves. Both often use hit-and-run tactics to exhaust their quarry. A pack usually circles a larger opponent: Each wolf attacks in turn, biting and retreating, until the creature is exhausted, at which point the pack moves i
n for the kill. If they get impatient or heavily outnumber the opponent, worgs attempt to pin it.
\par Trip (Ex): A worg that hits with a bite attack can attempt to trip the opponent as a free action without making a touch attack or provoking an attack of opportunity. If the attempt fails, the opponent cannot react to trip the worg.
\par Skills: A worg receives a +1 racial bonus to Listen, Move Silently, and Spot checks, and a +2 racial bonus to Hide checks. A worg has a +4 racial bonus to Wilderness Lore checks when tracking by scent.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Wraith}{
\par Medium-Size Undead (Incorporeal)\line Hit Dice: 5d12 (32 hp)\line Initiative: +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)\line AC: 15 (+3 Dex, +2 deflection)\line Attacks: Incorporeal touch +5 melee\line 
Damage: Incorporeal touch 1d4 and 1d6 permanent \line Constitution drain\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Constitution drain, create spawn\line 
Special Qualities: Undead, incorporeal, +2 turn resistance, unnatural aura, daylight powerlessness\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +6\line Abilities: Str -, Dex 16, Con -, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15\line 
Skills: Hide +11, Intimidate +10, Intuit Direction +6, Listen +12, \line Search +10, Sense Motive +8, Spot +12\line Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, \line Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-5), or pack (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 6-10 HD (Medium-size)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Constitution Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a wraith\rquote s incorporeal touch attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 14) or suffer 1d6 points of permanent Constitution drain.
\par Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a wraith becomes a wraith in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under the command of the wraith that created them and remain enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.
\par Unnatural Aura (Su): Both wild and domesticated animals can sense the unnatural presence of a wraith at a distance of 30 feet. They will not willingly approach nearer than tha
t and panic if forced to do so; they remain panicked as long as they are within that range.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, abil\-i\-ty damage, ener\-gy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Incorporeal: Can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, with a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. Can pass through solid objects at will, and own atta
cks pass through armor. Always moves silently.
\par Daylight Powerlessness (Ex): Wraiths are utterly powerless in natural sunlight (not merely a daylight spell) and flee from it.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Wyvern}{
\par Huge Dragon\line Hit Dice: 7d12+14 (59 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft., fly 60 ft. (poor)\line AC: 17 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural)\line Attacks: Sting +9 melee, bite +4 melee, 2 wings +4 melee; or _2 claws +9 melee\line 
Damage: Sting 1d6+4 and poison, bite 2d8+2, wing 1d8+2; or claw 1d6+4\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Poison, improved grab, snatch\line Special Qualities: Scent, Dragon\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +6\line 
Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 15, Int_6, Wis 12, Cha 9\line Skills: Listen +13, Move Silently +9, Spot +13*\line Feats: Alertness, Flyby Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest, hill, and mountains\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or flight (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Huge); 11-21 HD (Gargantuan)

\par Some wyverns speak Draconic, but most are too stupid to understand any language.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A wyvern can slash with its claws only when making a flyby attack, and it cannot make bite, sting, or wing attacks.
\par Poison (Ex): Sting, Fortitude save (DC 17); initial and secondary damage 2d6 temporary Constitution.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the wyvern must hit with both claw attacks. If it gets a hold, it hangs on and stings.
\par Snatch: If a wyvern gets a hold on a creature four or more sizes smaller, it automatically deals damage with both claws and its 
sting attacks each round the hold is maintained. The wyvern can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action or use a standard action to fling it aside. A flung creature travels 30 feet and takes 3d6 points of damage. If the wyvern flings it while fly
ing, the creature suffers this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater.
\par Skills: *Wyverns receive a +3 racial bonus to Spot checks when flying during daylight hours.
\par Dragon: Immune to sleep and paralysis effects.
\par }}