{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title MONSTERS (T)}{\author asmith}
{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr15\min41}{\revtim\yr2002\mo9\dy12\hr13\min57}{\version16}{\edmins25}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords2786}{\nofchars15882}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{
\par MONSTERS (T)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par }{\cs19\i Tarrasque}{
\par Colossal Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 48d10+576 (840 hp)\line Initiative: +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 35 (-8 size, +3 Dex, +30 natural)\line Attacks:
 Bite +57 melee, 2 horns +52 melee, 2 claws +52 melee, tail slap +52 melee\line Damage: Bite 4d8+17, horn 1d10+8, claw 1d12+8, tail slap 3d8+8\line Face/Reach: 40 ft. by 40 ft./25 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Frightful presence, rush, improved grab, swallow whole, augmented criticals\line Special Qualities: Damage reduction 25/+5, carapace, immunities, regeneration 40, scent, SR 32\line Saves: Fort +38, Ref +29, Will +20\line 
Abilities: Str 45, Dex 16, Con 35, Int 3, Wis 14, Cha 14\line Skills: Listen +21, Spot +21\line Feats: Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 20\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 49+ HD (Colossal)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Frightful Presence (Su): The tarrasque can inspire terror by charging or attacking. Affected creatures must succeed at a Will save (DC 26) or become shaken, remaining shaken until they leave the area of effect.
\par Rush (Ex): Once per minute, the normally slow-moving tarrasque can move at a speed of 150 feet.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the tarrasque must hit a Huge or smaller opponent with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can try to swallow the foe.
\par Swallow Whole (Ex): The tarrasque can try 
to swallow a grabbed opponent of Huge or smaller size by making a successful grapple check. Once inside, the opponent takes 2d8+8 points of crushing damage plus 2d8+6 points of acid damage per round from the tarrasque\rquote 
s digestive juices. A swallowed creature can cut its way out by dealing 50 points of damage to the tarrasque\rquote 
s digestive tract (AC 20) with a light piercing or slashing weapon. Once the creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must cut its own way out. The tarrasque\rquote 
s gullet can hold one Huge, four Large, sixteen Medium-size, or sixty-four Small or smaller creatures.
\par Augmented Criticals (Ex): The tarrasque threatens a critical hit on a natural attack roll of 18-20, dealing triple damage on a successful critical hit.
\par Carapace (Ex): The tarrasque\rquote 
s armorlike carapace is exceptionally tough and highly reflective, deflecting all rays, lines, cones, and even magic missile spells. There is a 30% chance of reflecting any such effect back at the caster; otherwise, it i
s merely negated. Check for reflection before rolling to overcome the creature\rquote s spell resistance.
\par Immunities (Ex): The tarrasque has fire, poison, and disease immunity.
\par Regeneration (Ex): No form of attack deals normal damage to the tarrasque. The tarrasq
ue regenerates even if disintegrated or slain with death magic: These attack forms merely knock it unconscious and set its total subdual damage to 850 points (unless it already has more subdual damage than that). It is immune to effects that produce incur
able or bleeding wounds, such as a sword of wounding, mummy rot, or a clay golem\rquote 
s wound ability. The tarrasque can be permanently slain only by raising its subdual damage total to 870 points and using a wish or miracle to keep it dead.  If the tarrasque lo
ses a limb or body part, the lost portion regrows in 1d6 minutes (the detached piece dies and decays normally). The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by holding it to the stump.
\par Skills: The tarrasque receives a +8 racial bonus to Listen and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs19 The tarrasque cannot speak.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Tendriculos}{
\par Huge Plant\line Hit Dice: 9d8+54 (94 hp)\line Initiative: -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 16 (-2 size, -1 Dex, +9 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +13 melee, 2 tendrils +8 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d8+9, tendril 1d6+4\line Face/Reach: 1
0 ft. by 40 ft./15 ft.\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, swallow whole, paralysis\line Special Qualities: Plant, regeneration 10\line Saves: Fort +12, Ref +2, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 28, Dex 9, Con 22, Int 3, Wis 8, Cha 3
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest, hill, and marsh\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 10-16 HD (Huge); 17-27 HD (Gargantuan)

\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the tendriculos must hit with
 its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage and can try to swallow the opponent. A tendriculos that hits with a tendril attack grabs as above. If it gets a hold, it picks up the opponent and transfers it to the mouth as a parti
al action, automatically dealing bite damage as above.
\par Swallow Whole/Paralysis (Ex): A tendriculos can try to swallow a grabbed opponent of Large or smaller size by making a successful grapple check. Once inside the plant\rquote s mass, the opponent must succeed a
t a Fortitude save (DC 19) or be paralyzed for 3d6 rounds by the tendriculos\rquote 
s digestive juices, taking 2d6 points of acid damage per round. A new save is required each round inside the plant. A swallowed creature that avoids paralysis can climb out of the mass with a successful grapple check. This returns it to the plant\rquote 
s maw, where another successful grapple check is needed to get free. A swallowed creature can also cut its way out by using a light slashing or piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to the tendriculos\rquote 
s interior (AC 15). Once the creature exits, the plant\rquote s amazing regenerative capacity closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must again cut its own way out. The tendriculos\rquote s interior can hold two Large, four Small, sixteen Tiny, o
r sixty-four Diminutive or smaller opponents.
\par Plant: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Regeneration (Ex): Bludgeoning weapons and acid deal normal damage to a tendriculos. A tendriculos that loses part of its body mass can regrow it in 1d6 minutes. Holding the severed portion against the mass enables it to reattach instantly.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Thoqqua}{
\par Medium-Size Elemental (Earth, Fire)\line Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., burrow 20 ft.\line AC: 18 (+1 Dex, +7 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +4 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d6+3 and 2d6 fire\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Heat, burn\line Special Qualities: Fire subtype, tremorsense, elemental\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 10\line 
Skills: Intuit Direction +4, Jump +6, Listen +6, Move Silently +5
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 4-9 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par When a thoqqua is disturbed, its first instinct is to attack. Its favored tactic is to spring directly at a foe, either by bursting out of the rock or by coiling up its body and launching itself like a spring. In either case, treat
 the maneuver as a charge.
\par Heat (Ex): Merely touching or being touched by a thoqqua automatically deals 2d6 fire damage.
\par Burn (Ex): When a thoqqua hits with its slam attack, the opponent must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 13) or catch fire. The flame burns for 1d4 rounds if not extinguished sooner. The burning creature can use a full-round action to put out the flame.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): Thoqquas can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par Elemental: Immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning.  Not subject to critical hits.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Titan}{
\par Huge Outsider (Chaotic, Good)\line Hit Dice: 20d8+120 (210 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 90 ft.\line AC: 22 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +13 natural)\line Attacks: Gargantuan warhammer +31/+26/+21/+16 melee; or \line Huge javelin +19/+14/+9/+4 ranged
\line Damage: Gargantuan warhammer 4d6+19; or Huge javelin 2d6+13\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 10 ft./15 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities, spells\line Special Qualities: Damage reduction 15/+1, SR 25\line Saves: Fort +18, Ref +13, Will +17
\line Abilities: Str 37, Dex 12, Con 23, Int 21, Wis 20, Cha 18\line Skills: Bluff +27, Climb +21, Concen
tration +29, Craft (any one) +27, Jump +36, Knowledge (any one) +28, Knowledge (religion) +28, Listen +30, Perform (ballad, chant, dance, epic, harp, melody, ode, plus any other sixteen) +27, Sense Motive +28, Spot +30, Swim +36\line 
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Expertise, Great Cleave, Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Level: 21\line Treasure: Triple standard\line Alignment: Always chaotic good\line Advancement: 21-30 HD (Huge); 31-60 HD (Gargantuan)
\par Titans speak Common, Celestial, Draconic, Giant, and Sylvan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will: alter self, bless, charm person or animal, commune with nature, cure light wounds, eyebite, fire storm, halt undead, hold monster, invisibility, levitate, light,
 magic circle against evil, mirror image, pass without trace, persistent image, produce flame, summon nature\rquote 
s ally II, remove curse, remove fear, shield, speak with plants, summon swarm, and whispering wind; 2/day-astral projection and etherealness. These
 abilities are as the spells cast by a 20th-level sorcerer (save DC 14 + spell level). Once every other round, a titan can use holy smite as a 20th-level cleric.
\par Spells: A titan can use arcane spells as a 20th-level wizard or divine spells as a 20th-level cleric, from the cleric list and from the Chaos and Good domains.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Tojanida}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Juvenile\tab \tab \tab \tab Adult\tab \tab \tab 
\tab Elder
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Small Outsider (Water)\tab \tab Medium-Size Outsider (Water)\tab Large Outsider (Water)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8+6 (19 hp)\tab \tab 7d8+14 (45 hp)\tab \tab \tab 15d8+60 (127 hp)
\par Initiative: +1 (Dex)\tab \tab +1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab +1 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab 10 ft., swim 90 ft.\tab \tab 10 ft., swim 90 ft.\tab \tab \tab 10 ft., swim 90 ft.
\par AC: 22 (+1 size, +1 Dex,\tab \tab 23 (+1 Dex, +12 natural)\tab \tab 24 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +14 natural)
\par \tab +10 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab Bite +6 melee,\tab \tab Bite +10 melee, 2 claws +5 melee\tab Bite +20 melee, 2 claws +15 melee
\par 2 claws +1 melee
\par Damage: Bite 2d6+2, claw 1d4+1\tab Bite 2d8+3, claw 1d6+1\tab \tab Bite 4d6+6, claw 1d8+3
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 10 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attack: Improved grab,\tab Improved grab, ink cloud\tab \tab Improved grab, ink cloud
\par \tab \tab ink cloud
\par Special Qualities: All-around\tab All-around vision, acid and cold\tab All-around vision, acid and cold
\par vision, acid and cold immunity,\tab immunity, fire and electricity\tab immunity, fire and electricity
\par fire and electricity resistance 20\tab resistance 20\tab \tab \tab resistance 20
\par Saves: Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +4\tab Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +6\tab \tab Fort +13, Ref +10, Will +10
\par Abilities: Str 14, Dex 13, Con 15,\tab Str 16, Dex 13, Con 15,\tab \tab Str 22, Dex 13, Con 19,
\par \tab Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 9\tab Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 9\tab \tab Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 9
\par Skills: Hide +11, Intuit Direction\tab Escape Artist +11, Hide +11,\tab Escape Artist +19, Hide +15,
\par +7, Listen +7, Search +6, Spot +9\tab Intimidate +5, Intuit Direction +11,\tab Intimidate +17, Intuit Direction 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab Listen +11, Search +6, Spot +13\tab +19, Knowledge (Plane of Water) 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +13, Listen +19, Search +6, Spot 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 +20
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Feats:\tab Blind-Fight\tab \tab Blind-Fight, Dodge\tab \tab Blind-Fight, Cleave, Dodge,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab Any aquatic\tab Any aquatic and underground\tab Any aquatic and underground
\par \tab and underground
\par Organization: Solitary or clutch (2-4) Solitary or clutch (2-4)\tab \tab Solitary or clutch (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating: 3\tab \tab 5\tab \tab \tab \tab 9
\par Treasure:\tab Standard\tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab \tab Standard
\par Alignment:\tab Always neutral\tab Always neutral\tab \tab \tab Always neutral
\par Advancement: 4-6 HD (Small)\tab 8-14 HD (Medium-size)\tab \tab 16-24 HD (Large); 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 25-32 HD (Gargantuan)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Tojanidas speak Aquan and can be loquacious, but usually only on the subject of food.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the tojanida must hit with a bite or claw attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals that weapon\rquote 
s damage each round the hold is maintained. Underwater, a tojanida can tow a grabbed victim of its own size or smaller at top speed. A favorite tactic is to grab a single opponent, then withdraw, hauling the opponent away from its allies.
\par All-Around Vision (Ex): Tojanidas\rquote  multiple apertures allow them to look in any direction, bestowing a +4 racial bonus to Spot and Search checks. Opponents gain no flanking bonuses when attacking a tojanida.
\par Ink Cloud (Ex): A tojanida can emit a spherical cloud of jet-black ink with a radius of 30 feet once per minute as a free action. The effect is otherwise similar to fog cloud cast by an individual of a level equal to the tojanida\rquote 
s Hit Dice. Out of water, the ink emerges in a stream up to 30 feet long, which the tojanida can squirt into an opponent\rquote 
s eyes. The affected creature must succeed at a Reflex save or be blinded for 1 round. The save DC is 13 against a juvenile, 15 against an adult, and 19 against an elder.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Treant}{
\par Huge Plant\line Hit Dice: 7d8+35 (66 hp)\line Initiative: -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 20 (-2 size, -1 Dex, +13 natural)\line Attacks: 2 slams +12 melee\line Damage: Slam 2d6+9\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 10 ft./"15_ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Animate trees, trample, double damage against objects\line Special Qualities: Plant, fire vulnerability, half damage from piercing\line Saves: Fort +10, Ref +1, Will +6\line Abilities: Str 29, Dex 8, Con 21, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 12\line 
Skills: Hide 9*, Intimidate +8, Knowledge (any one) +8, Listen +9, Sense Motive +9, Spot +9, Wilderness Lore +9\line Feats: Iron Will, Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any forest\line Organization: Solitary or grove (4-7)\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always neutral good\line Advancement: 8-16 HD (Huge); 17-21 HD \-(Gargantuan)
\par Treants speak their own language, plus Common and Sylvan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Treants prefer to watch potential foes carefully before attacking. They often charge suddenly from cover to trample the despoilers of forests. If sorely pressed, they animate trees as reinforcements.
\par Animate Trees (Sp): A treant can animate trees within 180 feet at will, controlling up to two trees at a time. It takes a full round for a normal tree to uproot itself. Thereafter it mo
ves at a speed of 10 and fights as a treant in all respects. Animated trees lose their ability to move if the treant who animated them is incapacitated or moves out of range. The ability is otherwise similar to liveoak as cast by a 12th-level druid.

\par Trample (Ex): A treant or animated tree can trample Medium-size or smaller creatures for 2d12+5 points of damage. Opponents who do not make attacks of opportunity against the treant or animated tree can attempt a Reflex save (DC 20) to halve the damage.

\par Double Damage against Objects (Ex): A treant or animated tree that makes a full attack against an object or structure deals double damage.
\par Plant: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Fire Vulnerability (Ex): A treant or animated tree takes double damage from fire attacks unless the attack allows a save, in which case it takes double damage on a failure and no damage on a success.
\par Half Damage from Piercing (Ex): Piercing weapons deal only half damage to treants, with a minimum of 1 point of damage.
\par Skills: Treants receive skills as though they were fey. *They have a +16 racial bonus to Hide checks made in forested areas.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Triton}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Water)\line Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: Swim 40 ft.\line AC: 16 (+6 natural)\line Attacks: Trident +4 melee; or heavy crossbow +3 ranged\line Damage: Trident 1d8+1; or heavy crossbow 1d10\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 12, Dex 10, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 11\line Skills: Craft (any one) +4, Hide +6, Listen_+7, Ride +6, Spot +7\line 
Feats: Mounted Combat
\par Climate/Terrain: Any aquatic\line Organization: Company (2-5), squad (6-11), or band (20-80)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always neutral good\line Advancement: 4-9 HD (Medium-size)
\par Tritons speak Common and Aquan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spell-Like Abilities: A triton can use summon nature\rquote s ally III once per day as the spell cast by a 5th-level sorcerer, often choosing water elementals for their companions.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Troglodyte}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid \-(Reptilian)\line Hit Dice: 2d8+4 (13 hp)\line Initiative: -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (-1 Dex, +6 natural)\line Attacks: Longspear +1 melee (or 2 claws +1 melee), bite -1 melee; or javelin +1 ranged\line 
Damage: Longspear 1d8, bite 1d4, claw 1d4; or javelin 1d6\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft. (10 ft. with longspear)\line Special Attacks: Stench, darkvision 90 ft.\line Saves: Fort +5, Ref -1, Will_+0\line 
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 9, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 10\line Skills: Hide +6*, Listen_+3\line Feats: Multiattack, Weapon Focus (javelin)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any mountains and underground\line Organization: Clutch (2-5), squad (6-11 plus 1-2 giant lizards), or band (20-80 plus 20% noncombatants plus 3-13 giant lizards)\line Challenge Rating: 1\line Treasure: 50% coins; 50% goods; 50% items
\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par Troglodytes speak Draconic.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Half of a group of troglodytes are armed only with claws and teeth; the rest carry one or two javelins and longspear
s. They normally conceal themselves, launch a volley of javelins, then close to attack. If the battle goes against them, they retreat and attempt to hide.
\par Stench (Ex): When a troglodyte is angry or frightened, it secretes an oily, musklike chemical that ne
arly every form of animal life finds offensive. All creatures (except troglodytes) within 30 feet of the troglodyte must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 13) or suffer  a \endash 
2 morale penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, checks, and saving throws. The affect lasts 10 rounds.  Once a character has succumbed to a particular troglodyte\rquote 
s stench ability, or made a successful saving throw against it, the character cannot be affected by the same troglodytes stench ability for 24 hours.
\par Skills: The skin of a troglodyte changes color somewhat, allowing it to blend in with surroundings like a chameleon and conferring a +4 racial bonus to Hide checks. *In rocky or subterranean settings, this bo\-nus improves to +8.
\par }{\cs21\b Troglodyte Characters}{
\par A troglodyte\rquote s favored class is cleric. Troglodyte clerics can choose any two of the following domains: Chaos, Death, Destruction, and Evil.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Troll}{
\par Large Giant\line Hit Dice: 6d8+36 (63 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 18 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +7 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +9 melee, bite +4 melee\line Damage: Claw 1d6+6, bite 1d6+3\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Rend 2d6+9\line Special Qualities: Regeneration 5, scent, darkvision 90 ft.\line Saves: Fort +11, Ref +4, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 23, Dex 14, Con 23, Int 6, Wis 9, Cha 6\line Skills: Listen +5, Spot +5\line Feats: Alertness, Iron Will

\par Climate/Terrain: Any land, aquatic, and underground\line Organization: Solitary or gang (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par Trolls speak Giant.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Trolls have no fear of death: They launch themselves into combat without hesitation, flailing wildly at the closest opponent. Even when confronted with fire, they try to get around the flames and attack.
\par Rend (Ex): If a troll hits with both claw attacks, it latches onto the opponent\rquote s body and tears the flesh. This attack automatically deals an additional 2d6+9 points of damage.
\par Regeneration (Ex): Fire and acid deal normal damage to a troll. If a troll loses a limb or body part, the lost portion regrows in 3d6 minutes. The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by holding it to the stump.
\par }{\cs21\b Scrags}{
\par On land, scrags have a speed of 20 feet, and their swimming speed is 40 feet. They regenerate only if mostly immersed in water. Scrags are otherwise identical with their landbound cousins.
\par }}