{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}
{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}
{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title MONSTERS (S)}{\author asmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr14\min18}{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy9\hr9\min29}{\version21}{\edmins82}{\nofpages17}{\nofwords5893}{\nofchars33591}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws41252}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (S)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\line }{\cs19\i Sahuagin}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., swim 60 ft.\line AC: 16 (+1 Dex, +5 natural)\line 
Attacks: Trident +3 melee, 2 rakes +1 melee (or 2 rakes +3 melee, 2 claws +1 melee), bite +1 melee; or heavy crossbow +2 ranged\line Damage: Trident 1d8+2, rake 1d4+2 (1d4+1 when a secondary attack), claw 1d2+1, bite 1d4+1; or heavy crossbow 1d10\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Blood frenzy\line Special Qualities: Speak with sharks, underwater sense, light blindness, amphibious, freshwater sensitivity\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +1, Will +1\line 
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 9\line Skills: Animal Empathy +2, Hide +6*, Listen +7*, Profession (hunt) +2, Spot +7*, Wilderness Lore +1*\line Feats: Multiattack
\par Climate/Terrain: Warm aquatic\line Organization: Solitary, pair, team (5-8)
, patrol (11-20 plus 1 3rd-level lieutenant and 1-2 sharks), band (20-80 plus 100% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level lieutenant and 1 4th-level chieftain per 20 adults plus 1-2 sharks), or tribe (70-160 plus 100% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level lieutenant per
 20 adults, 1 4th-level chieftain per 40 adults, 9 4th-level guards, 1-4 underpriestesses of 3rd-6th level, 1 7th-level priestess, and 1_baron of 6th-8th level plus 5-8 sharks)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: Standard\line 
Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Sahuagin are savage fighters, asking for and giving no quarter. When swimming, a sahuagin rakes with its feet as it strikes with its claws or a weapon. About half of any group of sahuagin are also armed with nets.
\par Blood Frenzy: 
Once per day a sahuagin that takes damage in combat can fly into a frenzy the following round, clawing and biting madly until either it or its opponent is dead. It gains +2 Constitution and +2 Strength, and suffers a -2 AC penalty. The sahuagin cannot end
 its frenzy voluntarily.
\par Speak with Sharks (Ex): Sahuagin can communicate telepathically with sharks up to 150 feet away. The communication is limited to fairly simple concepts such as "food," "danger," and "enemy." Sahuagin can use Animal Empathy to befriend and train sharks.

\par Underwater Sense (Ex): A sahuagin can locate creatures underwater within a 30-foot radius. This ability negates the effects of invisibility and poor visibility. It is less effective against creatures without central nervous systems, su
ch as undead, oozes, and constructs; a sahuagin can locate such creatures only within a 15-foot radius. Sahuagin are not fooled by figments when underwater.
\par Light Blindness (Ex): Abrupt exposure to bright light (such as sunlight or a daylight spell) blinds
 sahuagin for 1 round. In addition to temporary blindness, they suffer a -1 morale penalty to all attack rolls, saves, and checks while operating in bright light.
\par Amphibious (Ex): Sahuagin can survive out of the water for 1 hour per 2 points of Constitution.
\par Freshwater Sensitivity (Ex): A sahuagin fully immersed in freshwater must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or leave the water immediately. If the sahuagin fails and cannot escape, it suffers a -4 morale penalty to all attack rolls, saves, and checks.
 Even on a success, it must repeat the save attempt every 10 minutes it remains immersed.
\par Skills: Sahuagin receive a +4 racial bonus to Hide, Listen, and Spot checks. *Underwater, the bonus improves to +8. They receive a +8 bonus to Wilderness Lore and Profession (hunt) checks within fifty miles of their homes.
\par }{\cs21\b Sahuagin Mutants}{
\par About one in two hundred sahuagin has four arms. Such creatures can make four claw attacks or use extra weapons, in addition to the rake and bite attacks.
\par If a community of aquatic e
lves is located within a hundred miles of a sahuagin community, about one in one hundred sahuagin looks just like an aquatic elf. These creatures, called malenti, have a swim speed of 40 feet, can remain out of water for 1 hour per point of Constitution, 
and have freshwater and light sensitivity (-1 to attack rolls). They are otherwise identical with sahuagin.
\par }{\cs21\b Sahuagin Characters}{
\par A male sahuagin\rquote s favored class is ranger. Female sahuagin favor the cleric class. Sahuagin clerics can choose any two of the following domains: Evil, Law, Strength, and War.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Salamander}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Flamebrother\tab \tab \tab Average Salamander\tab \tab Noble Salamander
\par Small Outsider (Fire)\tab \tab Medium-Size Outsider (Fire) \tab Large Outsider (Fire)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\tab \tab 7d8+7 (38 hp)\tab \tab \tab 15d8+45 (112 hp)
\par Initiative: +1 (Dex)\tab \tab +1 (Dex) \tab \tab \tab +1 (Dex)
\par Speed: \tab 20 ft.\tab \tab \tab 20 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 20 ft.
\par AC: 19 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural) 18 (+1 Dex, +7 natural)\tab \tab 18 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  Halfspear +5 melee, \tab Longspear +9/+4 melee, \tab \tab +3 Huge longspear +23/+18/+13 
\par \tab tail slap +3 melee\tab \tab tail slap +7 melee\tab \tab \tab melee, tail slap +18 melee
\par Damage: Halfspear 1d6+1\tab \tab Longspear 1d8+2 and 1d6 fire,\tab +3 Huge longspear 2d6+9 and 1d8 
\par and 1d6 fire, tail slap 1d4\tab \tab tail slap 2d6+1 and 1d6 fire\tab fire, tail slap 2d8+3 and 1d8 fire
\par and 1d6 fire
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.
\par Special Attacks: Heat, constrict 1d4 Heat, constrict 2d6+1 and 1d6 fire\tab Heat, constrict 2d8+3 and 1d8 fire,
\par \tab and 1d6 fire\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab spell-like abilities
\par Special Qualities:\tab Fire subtype\tab Fire subtype, damage \tab \tab Fire subtype, damage
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\fs20 reduction 10/+1\tab \tab \tab  reduction 20 /+2
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Saves: Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +5\tab Fort +6, Ref +6, Will +7\tab \tab Fort +12, Ref +10, Will +11
\par Abilities: Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12,\tab Str 14, Dex 13, Con 12,\tab \tab Str 22, Dex 13, Con 16,
\par \tab Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 13\tab Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 13\tab \tab Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 15
\par Skills: Craft (metalworking) +11, \tab Craft (metalworking) +16, Escape\tab Bluff +11, Craft (metalworking) 
\par Escape Artist +7, Hide +9,\tab \tab Artist +11, Hide +11, Listen +14,\tab +24, Diplomacy +13, Escape Artist 
\par Listen +7, Search +7, Spot +7\tab Move Silently +11, Search +12,\tab +19, Hide +15, Listen +20, 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab Spot +14\tab \tab \tab Move Silently +17, Search +20, 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Sense Motive +12, Spot +20
\par Feats:\tab Multiattack\tab \tab Alertness, Multiattack\tab \tab Cleave, Great Cleave, Multiattack,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: \tab Any land and\tab Any land and underground\tab \tab Any land and underground
\par \tab \tab underground
\par Organization: Solitary, pair, or\tab Solitary, pair, or cluster (3-5)\tab Solitary, pair, or noble party (9-14)
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab cluster (3-5)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Challenge Rating:  2\tab \tab 5\tab \tab \tab \tab 9
\par Treasure: Standard\tab \tab Standard (nonflammables only)\tab Double standard (nonflammables 
\par \tab (nonflammables only)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab only) and +3 Huge longspear
\par Alignment: Usually evil (any)\tab Usually evil (any)\tab \tab Usually evil (any)
\par Advancement: 4-6 HD (Small)\tab 8-14 HD (Medium-size)\tab \tab 16-21 HD (Large); 22-45 HD 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 (Huge)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Salamanders speak Ignan. Some average salamanders and all nobles also speak Common.
\par Heat (Ex): A salamander generates so much heat that its mere touch deals additional fire damage. Salamanders\rquote  metallic weapons also conduct this heat.
\par Constrict (Ex): A salamander deals automatic tail slap damage (including fire damage) with a successful grapple check against creatures up to one size larger than itself. A noble salamander can constrict multiple c
reatures simultaneously, provided they are all at least two sizes smaller than it.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: (Noble salamanders only) 3/day-burning hands, fireball, flaming sphere, and wall of fire; 1/day-dispel magic and summon monster VII (huge fire elementa
l). These abilities are as the spells cast by a 15th-level sorcerer (save DC 12 + spell level).
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Skills: Salamanders receive a +4 racial bonus to Craft (metalworking) skill checks.
\par Feats: Salamanders have the Multiattack feat even without the requisite three natural weapons.
\par }{\cs21\b Salamander Characters}{
\par Average or noble salamanders may be clerics, sorcerers, or fighters (their favored class).
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Satyr}{
\par Medium-Size Fey\line Hit Dice: 5d6+5 (22 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft.\line AC: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: Gore +2 melee, dagger -3 melee; or shortbow +3 ranged\line Damage: Gore 1d6, dagger 1d4; or shortbow 1d6\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Pipes\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 13\line Skills: Bluff +9, Hide +13, Listen +15, Move Silently +13,\line 
Perform (dance, pan pipes, plus any two others) +9, Spot +15\line Feats: Alertness, Dodge, Mobility
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate forest\line Organization: Solitary, band (2-5), or troop (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 2 (without pipes) or 4 (with pipes)\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually chaotic neutral\line Advancement: 6-10 HD (Medium-size)

\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Once engaged in battle, an unarmed satyr attacks with a powerful head butt. A satyr expecting trouble is likely to be armed with a bow and a dagger and typically looses arrows from hiding, weakening an enemy before closing.
\par Pipes (Su): Satyrs can play a variety of magical tunes on their pan pipes. Usually
, only one satyr in a group carries pipes. When it plays, all creatures within a 60-foot spread (except satyrs) must succeed at a Will save (DC 14) or be affected by charm person, sleep, or fear, as the spells cast by a 10th-level sorcerer (the satyr choo
ses the tune and its effect). In the hands of other beings, these pipes have no special powers. A creature that successfully saves against any of the pipe\rquote 
s effects cannot be affected by the same set of pipes again for one day. A satyr often uses its pipes to charm and seduce especially comely women or to put a party of adventurers to sleep and then steal their valuables.
\par Skills: Satyrs receive a +4 racial bonus to Hide, Listen, Move Silently, Perform, and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Sea Lion}{
\par Large Beast\line Hit Dice: 6d10+18 (51 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: Swim 40 ft.\line AC: 18 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +7 melee, bite +2 melee\line Damage: Claw 1d6+4, bite 1d8+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
\line Special Attacks: Rend 2d6+6\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con_17, Int 4, Wis 13, Cha_10\line Skills: Listen +7, Spot +7
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm aquatic\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pride (5-12)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 7-9 HD (Large); 10-18 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Rend (Ex): A sea lion that hits with both claw attacks latches onto the opponent\rquote s body and tears the flesh. This automatically deals an additional 2d6+6 points of damage.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Shadow}{
\par Medium-Size Undead (Incorporeal)\line Hit Dice: 3d12 (19 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (good)\line AC: 13 (+2 Dex, +1 deflection)\line Attacks: Incorporeal touch +3 melee\line Damage: Incorporeal touch 1d6 temporary Strength
\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Strength damage, create spawn\line Special Qualities: Undead, incorporeal, +2 turn resistance\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +4\line Abilities: Str -, Dex 14, Con -, Int 6, Wis_12, Cha 13
\line Skills: Hide +8, Intuit Direction +5, Listen +7, Spot_+7\line Feat: Dodge
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-5), or swarm (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: 4-9 HD (Medium-size)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Strength Damage (Su): The touch of a shadow deals 1d6 points of temporary Strength damage to a living foe. A creature reduced to Strength 0 by a shadow dies.
\par Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid reduced to Strength 0 by a shadow becomes a shadow under the control of its killer within 1d4 rounds.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Incorporeal: Can be h
armed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, with a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. Can pass through solid objects at will, and own attacks pass through armor. Always moves silently.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Shadow Mastiff}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Evil)\line Hit Dice: 4d8+12 (30 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 50 ft.\line AC: 14 (+1 Dex, +3 \-natural)\line Attacks: Bite +7 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6+4\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\line Special Attacks: Bay, trip\line Special Qualities: Shadow blend, scent\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 17, Dex 13, Con 17, Int 4, Wis 12, Cha 13\line Skills: Listen +8, Spot +8, Wilderness Lore +7*\line 
Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (5-12)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 5-6 HD (Medium-size); 7-12 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Bay (Su): When a shadow mastiff howls or barks, all creatures except evil outsiders within a 300-
foot spread must succeed at a Will save (DC 13) or become panicked for 2d4 rounds. This is a sonic, mind-affecting fear effect. Whether or not the save is successful, an affected creature is immune to that mastiff\rquote s bay for one day.
\par Trip (Ex): A shadow mastiff that hits with its bite attack can attempt to trip the opponent as a free action without making a touch attack or provoking an attack of opportunity. If the attempt fails, the opponent cannot react to trip the shadow mastiff.

\par Shadow Blend (Su): During
 any conditions other than full daylight, a shadow mastiff can disappear into the shadows, giving it nine-tenths concealment. Artificial illumination, even a light or continual flame spell, does not negate this ability. A daylight spell, however, will.

\par Skills: A shadow mastiff receives a +4 racial bonus to Wilderness Lore checks when tracking by scent.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Shambling Mound}{
\par Large Plant\line Hit Dice: 8d8+24 (60 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 20 (-1 size, +11 natural)\line Attacks: 2 slams +10 melee\line Damage: Slam 2d6+5\line Face/Reach: 5 ft by 5 ft./10 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Improved grab, constrict 2d6+7\line Special Qualities: Plant, electricity immunity, fire resistance 30\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +2, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 21, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha 9\line Skills: Hide +0*, 
Listen +4, Move Silently +4
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest, marsh, and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 9-12 HD (Large); 13-24 HD (Huge)

\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the shambler must hit an opponent of up to Large size with both arm attacks. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Constrict (Ex): A shambler deals 2d6+7 points of damage with a successful grapple check against Large or smaller creatures. The shambler can still move but cannot take any attack actions when constricting.
\par Plant: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Electricity Immuni
ty (Ex): Shamblers take no damage from electricity. Instead, any electrical attack (such as shocking grasp or lightning bolt) used against a shambler grants it 1d4 points of temporary Constitution. The shambler loses these points at the rate of 1 per hour
.
\par Skills: Shamblers receive a +4 racial bonus to Hide, Listen, and Move Silently checks. *They receive a +12 bonus to Hide checks when in a swampy or forested area.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Shield Guardian}{
\par Large Construct\line Hit Dice: 15d10 (82 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 24 (-1 size, +15 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +16/+11/+6 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d8+9\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spell storing
\line Special Qualities: Construct, fast healing 5, shield other, guard, find master\line Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +5\line Abilities: Str 22, Dex 10, Con -, Int -, Wis_10, Cha 1
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 16-24 HD (Large); 25-45 HD (Huge)
\par A shield guardian when fashioned is keyed to a particular amulet. Henceforth, it regards the wearer of that amulet to be its master, protecting and following that person everywhere (unless specifically commanded not to do so).
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Spell Storing (Sp): The shield guardian can store
 one spell of 4th level or lower that is cast into it by another creature. It "casts" this spell when commanded or when a predetermined situation arises. Once this is used, it can store another spell (or the same spell).
\par Construct: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, disease, and similar effects. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Shield Other (Sp): The wearer of the keyed amulet can activate this defensive ability if within 100 
feet of the shield guardian. Just as the spell of the same name, this transfers to the guardian half the damage that would be dealt to the amulet wearer (this ability does not provide the spell\rquote s AC or save bonuses, but see below).
\par Guard (Ex): The shield guardian moves swiftly to defend the amulet wearer by its side, blocking blows and disrupting foes. All attacks against the amulet wearer suffer a -2 deflection penalty.
\par Find Master (Su): No matter the distance, as long as they are on the same plane, the shield guardian can find the amulet wearer (or just the amulet, if it is removed after the guardian is called).
\par }{\cs21\b Construction}{
\par A shield guardian costs 100,000 gp to create. This cost includes the construct\rquote s physical body, the keyed amulet, and all the materia
ls and spell components that are consumed or become a permanent part of them. This cost includes 1,000 gp for the body and 500 gp for the amulet.
\par Creating the body requires a successful Profession (engineering) or Craft (sculpture) check (DC 16).
\par The second requirement is creating the keyed amulet from bronze, which requires a successful Craft (metalworking) check (DC 12).
\par After the body and amulet are fashioned, the creature must be animated through an extended magical ritual that requires a week to comple
te. Understanding the ritual requires a 12th-level character with the Craft Wondrous Item feat. The creator must labor for at least 8 hours each day in a specially prepared laboratory or workroom. The chamber is similar to both an alchemist\rquote 
s laboratory and a smithy and costs 1,000 gp to establish.
\par When not working on the ritual, the character must rest and can perform no other activities except eating, sleeping, or talking. If personally constructing the creature\rquote s body, the creator can perform the buildin
g and ritual together. If the creator misses a day of the ritual, the process fails and must be started again. Money spent is lost, but XP spent are not. The shield guardian\rquote s body can be reused, as can the chamber.
\par Completing the ritual drains 2,000 XP fr
om the creator and requires limited wish, locate object, make whole, shield, and shield other, which must be cast on the final day of the ritual. The creator must cast the spells personally, but they can come from outside sources, such as scrolls.
\par }{\cs21\b Amulet}{
\par If the keyed amulet is destroyed, the guardian ceases to function until a new one is created. If the wearer dies but the amulet is intact, the shield guardian carries out the last command given.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Shocker Lizard}{
\par Small Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 2d10+2 (13 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft., climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.\line AC: 16 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +3 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d4\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\line Special Attacks: Stunning shock, lethal shock\line Special Qualities: Electricity sense, electricity immunity\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +1\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 6\line 
Skills: Climb +12, Hide +11, Jump +4, Listen +4, Spot +4\line Feats: -
\par Climate/Terrain: Warm aquatic, marsh, and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, clutch (3-5), or colony (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: 1/10 coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral\line 
Advancement: 3-4 HD (Medium-size); 5-6 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A shocker lizard relies on its electrical abilities in combat. A lizard tends
 to bite only after its shock has rendered an opponent unconscious or when the shock seems to have no effect at all. Lone lizards flee once they deliver their shocks, but if others are nearby, they all home in on their comrade\rquote 
s discharges and administer deadly shocks to the foe.
\par Stunning Shock (Su): Once per round, a shocker lizard can deliver an electrical shock to a single opponent within 5 feet. This attack deals 2d8 points of subdual damage to living opponents (Reflex half DC 12).
\par Lethal Shock (Su): Wh
enever two or more shocker lizards are within 25 feet of each other, they can work together to create a lethal shock. This effect has a radius of 25 feet, centered on any one contributing lizard. The shock deals 2d8 points of damage for each lizard contri
buting to it (Reflex half DC 10 + number of lizards \-contributing).
\par Electricity Sense (Ex): Shocker lizards automatically detect any electrical discharges within 100 feet.
\par Skills: Shocker lizards receive a +4 racial bonus to Hide checks due to their coloration.  They receive a +2 racial bonus to Listen and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Skeleton}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Tiny Skeleton\tab \tab \tab Small Skeleton\tab \tab \tab Medium-Size Skeleton
\par Tiny Undead\tab \tab \tab Small Undead\tab \tab \tab Medium-Size Undead
\par Hit Dice: 1/4 d12 (1 hp)\tab \tab 1/2 d12 (3 hp)\tab \tab \tab 1d12 (6 hp)
\par Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex,\tab \tab +5 (+1 Dex,\tab \tab \tab +5 (+1 Dex, 
\par +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 30 ft.
\par AC:\tab 13 (+2 size, +1 Dex)\tab 13 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +1 natural)\tab 13 (+ 1 Dex, +2 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab 2 claws +0 melee\tab \tab 2 claws +0 melee\tab \tab \tab 2 claws +0 melee
\par Damage: Claw 1d2-2\tab \tab Claw 1d3-1\tab \tab \tab Claw 1d4
\par Face/Reach: 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft./0 ft. 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Qualities:\tab Undead, immunities Undead, immunities\tab \tab Undead, immunities
\par Saves:\tab Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +2\tab Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +2\tab \tab Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +2
\par Abilities: Str 6, Dex 12, Con -,\tab Str 8, Dex 12, Con -,\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 12, Con -,
\par \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1\tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1\tab \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1
\par Feats:\tab Improved Initiative\tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Large Skeleton\tab \tab \tab \tab Huge Skeleton\tab \tab \tab \tab Large Undead\tab \tab \tab \tab Huge Undead
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Hit Dice:\tab 2d12 (13 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab 4d12 (26 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\tab +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab \tab 40 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 40 ft.
\par AC:\tab \tab 13 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +3 natural)\tab \tab 13 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab \tab 2 claws +2 melee\tab \tab \tab \tab 2 claws +4 melee
\par Damage:\tab Claw 1d6+2\tab \tab \tab \tab Claw 1d8+4
\par Face/Reach:\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 10 ft. by 10 ft./15 ft.
\par Special Qualities:\tab Undead, immunities\tab \tab \tab Undead, immunities
\par Saves:\tab \tab Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +3\tab \tab \tab Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +4
\par Abilities:\tab Str 14, Dex 12, Con -,\tab \tab \tab Str 18, Dex 12, Con -,
\par \tab \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1
\par Feats:\tab \tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 Gargantuan Skeleton\tab \tab \tab Colossal Skeleton
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab \tab Gargantuan Undead\tab \tab \tab Colossal Undead
\par Hit Dice:\tab 16d12 (104 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab 32d12 (208 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\tab +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab \tab 40 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 40 ft.
\par AC:\tab \tab 13 (-4 size, +1 Dex, +6 natural)\tab \tab 13 (-8 size, +1 Dex, +10 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab \tab 2 claws +10 melee\tab \tab \tab 2 claws +16 melee
\par Damage:\tab Claw 2d6+6\tab \tab \tab \tab Claw 2d8+8
\par Face/Reach:\tab 20 ft. by 20 ft./20 ft.\tab \tab \tab 40 ft. by 40 ft./25 ft.
\par Special Qualities:\tab Undead, immunities\tab \tab \tab Undead, immunities
\par Saves:\tab \tab Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +10\tab \tab \tab Fort +10, Ref +11, Will_+18
\par Abilities:\tab Str 22, Dex 12, Con -,\tab \tab \tab Str 26, Dex 12, Con -,
\par \tab \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 10, Cha 1
\par Feats:\tab \tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par }{Climate/Terrain:\tab Any land and underground
\par Organization:\tab Any
\par Challenge Rating: Tiny 1/6; Small 1/4; Medium-size 1/3; Large 1; Huge 2; \-Gargantuan 7; Colossal 9
\par Treasure: \tab None
\par Alignment: \tab Always neutral
\par Advancement:\tab Tiny, Small, and Medium-size -; Large 3 HD (Large); Huge 5-15 HD (Huge); Gargantuan 17-31 HD \-(Gargantuan); Colossal 33-64 HD (Colossal)
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Immunities (Ex): Skeletons have cold immunity. Because they lack flesh or internal organs, they take only half damage from piercing or slashing weapons.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Skum}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Medium-Size Aberration (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line 
Speed: 20 ft., swim 40 ft.\line AC: 13 (+1 Dex, +2 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +5 melee, 2 claws +0 melee, 2 rakes +0 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d6+4, claw 1d4+2, rake 1d6+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Low-light vision
\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +1, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 6\line Skills: Climb +9, Hide +6*, Listen +7*, Move_Silently_+3, Spot_+7*\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm aquatic and underground\line Organization: Brood (2-5) or pack (6-15)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 3-4 HD (Medium-size); 5-6 HD (Large)
\par Skum can breathe both air and water. They speak Aquan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par In the wa
ter, skum are dangerous enemies who attack by biting, clawing, and raking with their rear legs. On land they are less dangerous, for they cannot rake and suffer a -2 circumstance penalty to all attack rolls. Skum serving an aboleth are sometimes trained t
o fight with weapons, usually two-handed melee weapons with reach (such as longspears) and simple ranged weapons such as javelins, tridents, or slings.
\par Skills: *Skum receive a +4 racial bonus to Hide, Listen, and Spot checks underwater.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Spectre}{
\par Medium-Size Undead (Incorporeal)\line Hit Dice: 7d12 (45 hp)\line Initiative: +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 40 ft., fly 80 ft. (good)\line AC: 15 (+3 Dex, +2 deflection)\line Attacks: Incorporeal touch +6 melee\line 
Damage: Incorporeal touch 1d8 and energy drain\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Energy drain, create spawn\line Special Qualities: Undead, incorporeal, +2 turn resistance, unnatural aura, sunlight powerlessness\line 
Saves: Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +7\line Abilities: Str -, Dex 16, Con -, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15\line Skills: Hide +13, Intimidate +12, Intuit Direction +10, Listen +13, Search +10, Spot +13\line 
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or swarm (6-11)\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 8-14 HD (Medium-size)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par In close combat a spectre attacks with its numbing, life-draining touch. It makes full use of its incorporeal nature, moving through walls, ceilings, and floors as it attacks.
\par Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a spectre\rquote s incorporeal touch attack receive two negative levels. The Fortitude save to remove a negative level has a DC of 15.
\par Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a spectre becomes a spectre in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under the command of the spectre that created them and remain enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities they had in life.
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Incorporeal: Can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, with a 50% chance to ignore any damage fr
om a corporeal source. Can pass through solid objects at will, and own attacks pass through armor. Always moves silently.
\par Unnatural Aura (Su): Both wild and domesticated animals can sense the unnatural presence of a spectre at a distance of 30 feet. They d
o not willingly approach nearer than that and panic if forced to do so; they remain panicked as long as they are within that range.
\par Sunlight Powerlessness (Ex): Spectres are utterly powerless in natural sunlight (not merely a daylight spell) and flee from it. A spectre caught in sunlight cannot attack and can take only partial actions.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Spider Eater}{
\par Huge Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 4d10+20 (42 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)\line AC: 13 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: Sting +7 melee, bite +2 melee\line Damage: Sting 1d8+5 and poison, bite 1d8+2\line 
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 40 ft./""10 ft.\line Special Attack: Poison, implant\line Special Qualities: Freedom of movement, scent\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +5, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 21, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10\line 
Skills: Listen +10, Spot +10\line Feats: -
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 5-12 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A spider eater attacks with its ven
omous sting and powerful mandibles. Its usual tactic is to deliver a sting, then back off, hovering out of reach until the venom takes effect. Spider eaters do not like to give up their prey, and foes who harry them with spells or ranged attacks provoke a
 determined counterattack.
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 17); initial damage none, secondary damage paralysis for 1d8+5 weeks.
\par Implant (Ex): Female spider eaters lay their eggs inside paralyzed creatures of Huge or larger size. The young emerge about six weeks later, literally devouring the host from inside.
\par Freedom of Movement (Su): Spider eaters have freedom of movement as though from the spell cast by a 12th-level sorcerer. The effect can be dispelled, but the spider eater can create it again the 
next round as a free action. When the spider eater serves as a mount, this effect does not extend to its rider.
\par Skills: Spider eaters receive a +4 racial bonus to Listen and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs21\b Training a Spider Eater}{
\par Training a spider eater as an aerial mount requires a successful Handle Animal check (DC 24 for a young creature, or DC 29 for an adult). A spider eater matures in six months.
\par Spider eater eggs are worth 2,000 gp apiece on the open market, while young are worth 3,000 gp each. Professional trainers ch
arge 3,000 gp to rear or train a spider eater. Riding a trained spider eater requires an exotic saddle. A spider eater can fight while carrying a rider, but the rider cannot also attack unless he or she succeeds at a Ride check.
\par Carrying Capacity: A light load for a spider eater is up to 612 pounds; a medium load, 613-1,224 pounds; and a heavy load, 1,225-1,840 pounds.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Sphinx}{
\par }{\fs20 Androsphinx\tab \tab \tab Criosphinx\tab \tab \tab Gynosphinx
\par Large Magical Beast\tab \tab Large Magical Beast\tab \tab Large Magical Beast
\par Hit Dice: 12d10+48 (114 hp)\tab 10d10+30 (85 hp) \tab \tab 8d10+8 (52 hp)
\par Initiative: +0\tab \tab \tab +0\tab \tab \tab \tab +5 (+1 Dex, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 +4 Improved Initiative)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Speed:\tab 50 ft., fly 80 ft. (poor)\tab 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (poor) \tab \tab 40 ft., fly 60 ft. (poor)
\par AC:\tab 22 (-1 size, +13 natural)\tab 20 (-1 size, +11 natural) \tab \tab 21 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +11 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab 2 claws +18 melee\tab Butt +15 melee, 2 claws +10 melee\tab 2 claws +11 melee
\par Damage:Claw 2d4+7\tab \tab Butt 2d6+6, claw 1d6+3\tab \tab Claw 1d6+4
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Pounce, rake\tab Pounce, rake 1d6+3\tab \tab Pounce, rake 1d6+2, 
\par 2d4+3, roar, spells\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab spell-like abilities
\par Saves:\tab Fort +12, Ref +8, Will +7\tab Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +8
\par Abilities: Str 25, Dex 10, Con 19, \tab Str 23, Dex 10, Con 17, \tab \tab Str 19, Dex 12, Con 13,
\par \tab Int 16, Wis 17, Cha 17 \tab Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 11\tab \tab Int 18, Wis 19, Cha 19
\par Skills: Intimidate +13, Knowledge\tab Intimidate +8, Listen +10, Spot\tab Concentration +12, Intimidate +13, 
\par  (any one) +5, Listen +15, Spot +15, +10 Listen +17, Spot +17\tab \tab Wilderness Lore +13
\par Feats: Alertness, Cleave, Great\tab Cleave, Flyby Attack, Power \tab Alertness, Blind-Fight, 
\par Cleave, Flyby Attack, Power\tab Attack\tab \tab \tab \tab Combat Casting, Flyby Attack,
\par Attack, Track\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Improved Initiative, Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab Any warm land\tab Warm forest\tab \tab \tab Any warm land
\par Organization: Solitary\tab \tab Solitary\tab \tab \tab \tab Solitary or covey (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating: 9\tab \tab 7\tab \tab \tab \tab 8
\par Treasure: Standard\tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab \tab Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic good\tab Always neutral\tab \tab \tab Always neutral
\par Advancement: 13-18 HD (Large);\tab 11-15 HD (Large);\tab \tab 9-12 HD (Large); 
\par 19-36 HD (Huge)\tab \tab \tab 16-30 HD (Huge)\tab \tab \tab 13-24 HD (Huge)
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab Hieracosphinx
\par \tab \tab \tab Large Magical Beast
\par Hit Dice:\tab \tab 9d10+18 (67 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab \tab +2 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab \tab \tab 30 ft., fly 90 ft. (poor)
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {AC:\tab \tab \tab 19 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +8 natural)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Attacks:\tab \tab \tab Bite +13 melee, 2 claws +8 melee
\par Damage:\tab \tab Bite 1d10+5, claw 1d6+2
\par Face/Reach\tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab \tab Pounce, rake 1d6+2
\par Saves:\tab \tab \tab Fort +8, Ref +8, Will +5
\par Abilities:\tab \tab Str 21, Dex 14, Con 15,
\par \tab \tab \tab Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 10
\par Skills:\tab \tab \tab Listen +13, Spot +14*
\par Feats:\tab \tab \tab Alertness, Flyby Attack
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab \tab Warm hill
\par Organization:\tab \tab Solitary, pair, or flock (4-7)
\par Challenge Rating:\tab 5
\par Treasure:\tab \tab None
\par Alignment:\tab \tab Always chaotic evil
\par Advancement:\tab \tab 10-14 HD (Large); 15-27 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs19\i Sphinxi}{
\par Pounce (Ex): If a sphinx leaps upon a foe during the first round of combat, it can make a full attack even if it has already taken a move action.
\par Rake (Ex): A sphinx that pounces onto a creature can make two rake attacks with its hind legs. The individual description lists the attack bonus and damage.
\par }{\cs19\i Androsphinx}{
\par Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +18 melee, damage 2d4+3.
\par Roar (Su): Three times per day an androsphinx can loose a mighty roar. The first time it does this, all creatures within 500 feet must succeed at a Will save (DC 19)
 or be affected as though by a fear spell for 12 rounds. If the sphinx roars a second time during the same encounter, all creatures within 250 feet must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 19) or be paralyzed for 1d4 rounds, and all those within 90 feet are d
e
afened for 2d6 rounds (no save). If it roars a third time during the same encounter, all those within 250 feet must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 19) or take 2d4 points of temporary Strength damage for 2d4 rounds. In addition, any Medium-size or smaller
 
creature within 90 feet must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 19) or be thrown to the ground and take 2d8 points of damage. The force of this roar is so great that it deals 50 points of damage to any stone or crystalline object within 90 feet. Magic items 
and held or carried items can avoid damage with a successful Reflex save (DC 19). Other androsphinxes are immune to these effects.
\par Spells: An androsphinx casts divine spells as a 6th-level cleric from the cleric spell list and from the Good, Healing, and Protection domains.
\par }{\cs19\i Criosphinx}{
\par Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +15 melee, damage 1d6+3.
\par }{\cs19\i Gynosphinx}{
\par Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +11 melee, damage 1d6+2.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-clairaudience/clai
rvoyance, detect magic, read magic, and see invisibility; 1/day-comprehend languages, locate object, dispel magic, remove curse, and legend lore. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 14th-level sorcerer (save DC 14 + spell level).
\par Once per week a gynosphinx can create a symbol of death, discord, insanity, pain, persuasion, sleep, and stunning (one of each) as the spell cast by an 18th-level sorcerer (save DC 22).
\par }{\cs19\i Hieracosphinx}{
\par Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +13 melee, damage 1d6+2.
\par Skills: *Hieracosphinxes gain a +4 racial bonus to Spot checks in daylight.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Sprite}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Grig\tab \tab \tab \tab Nixie\tab \tab \tab \tab 
Pixie
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Tiny Fey\tab \tab \tab Small Fey\tab \tab \tab Small Fey
\par Hit Dice: 1/2 d6+1 (2 hp)\tab \tab 1d6 (3 hp)\tab \tab \tab 1d6 (3 hp)
\par Initiative: +4 (Dex)\tab \tab +7 (+3 Dex, \tab \tab \tab +4 (Dex)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab 20 ft., fly 40 ft. (poor)\tab 20 ft., swim 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab 20 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)
\par AC: 18 (+2 size, +4 Dex, +2 natural) 14 (+1 size, +3 Dex) \tab \tab 16 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +1 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  Diminutive short sword\tab Dagger +4 melee; or light\tab \tab Dagger +5 melee; or composite
\par +6 melee; or composite shortbow\tab crossbow  +4 ranged\tab \tab shortbow +6 ranged
\par +6 ranged
\par Damage: Diminutive short sword \tab Dagger 1d4-2;\tab \tab \tab Dagger 1d4-2; 
\par 1d3-3; or composite shortbow 1d4\tab or light crossbow 1d8\tab \tab or composite  shortbow 1d6
\par Face/Reach: 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft./0 ft. 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Spell-like \tab Water breathing, charm person\tab Spell-like abilities, special arrows
\par \tab \tab Abilities, fiddle
\par Special Qualities:\tab SR 17\tab \tab SR 16\tab \tab \tab \tab SR 16, natural invisibility
\par Saves: \tab Fort +1, Ref +6, Will +3\tab Fort +0, Ref +5, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +0, Ref +6, Will +4
\par Abilities: Str 5, Dex 18, Con 13,\tab Str 7, Dex 16, Con 11, \tab \tab Str 7, Dex 18, Con 11,
\par \tab Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 14\tab Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 18\tab \tab Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16
\par Skills: Craft (any one) +4, Escape\tab Animal Empathy +7, Bluff +8, \tab Bluff +7, Concentration +4,
\par Artist +8, Hide +16, Jump +9,\tab Craft (any one) +5, Escape Artist\tab Craft (any one) +7,Escape Artist 
\par Move Silently +8*, Perform  \tab +6, Handle Animal +8, Hide +10*, Listen +7, Perform (dance, 
\par (dance, fiddle, melody, plus any\tab Heal +6, Hide +12, Listen +8, \tab melody, plus any other one) +7, \tab 
\par other one) +6, Search +3, Spot +4\tab Move Silently +8, Ride +8, Search \tab Sense Motive +6, Spot +8
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab +9, Search +3, Sense Motive +5, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\fs20 Spot +7
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Feats: Dodge, Weapon Finesse\tab Dodge, Improved Initiative,\tab Dodge, Point Blank Shot, Rapid
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs20 (dagger)\tab \tab \tab Weapon Finesse (dagger)\tab \tab Shot, Weapon Finesse (dagger),
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Weapon Focus (shortbow)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and\tab Temperate aquatic\tab \tab Temperate forest
\par \tab \tab warm forest
\par Organization: Gang (2-4),\tab \tab Gang (2-4), band (6-11),\tab \tab Gang (2-4), band (6-11),
\par band (6-11), or tribe (20-80)\tab or tribe (20-80)\tab \tab \tab or tribe (20-80)
\par Challenge Rating: 1\tab \tab 1\tab \tab \tab \tab 4
\par Treasure: No coins; 50% goods;\tab No coins; 50% goods (metal\tab No coins; 50% goods; 50% items
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 50% items\tab \tab or stone only); 50% items
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\fs20 (no scrolls)\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Alignment: Always neutral good\tab Always neutral\tab \tab \tab Always neutral good
\par Advancement: 1-3 HD (Tiny)\tab 2-3 HD (Small)\tab \tab \tab 2-3 HD (Small)
\par }{\cs19\i Sprites}{
\par Skills: All sprites receive a +2 racial bonus to Search, Spot, and Listen checks.
\par }{\cs19\i Grig}{
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-change self, entangle, invisibility (self only), pyrotechnics, and ventriloquism. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 9th-level sorcerer (save DC 12 + spell level).
\par Fiddle (Su): One grig in each band carries a tiny, grig-sized fiddle. When the fiddler plays, any nonsprite within 30 feet of the instrument must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or be affected as though by irresistible dance as long as the playing continue
s.
\par Skills: Grigs receive a +8 racial bonus to Jump checks. *They also receive a +5 racial bonus to Move Silently checks in a forest setting.
\par }{\cs19\i Nixie}{
\par Water Breathing (Sp): Once per day a nixie can use water breathing as the spell cast by a 6th-level sorcerer. (They usually bestow this effect on those they have charmed.)
\par Charm Person (Sp): A nixie can charm person three times per day as the spell cast by a 4th-level sorcerer. Those affected must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or be charmed for 24 hours, performi
ng heavy labor, guard duty, and other onerous tasks for the nixie community. Shortly before the effect wears off, the nixie escorts the charmed creature away and orders it to keep walking.
\par Skills: *Nixies receive a +5 racial bonus to Hide checks when in the water.
\par }{\cs19\i Pixie}{
\par Natural Invisibility (Su): A pixie remains invisible even when it attacks. This ability is constant, but the pixie can suppress or resume it as a free action.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day-confusion (the pixie must touch the target), dancing l
ights, detect chaos, detect good, detect evil, detect law, detect thoughts, dispel magic, entangle, permanent image (visual and auditory elements only), and polymorph self. These abilities are as the spells cast by an 8th-level sorcerer (save DC 13 + spel
l level).
\par One pixie in ten can use irresistible dance once per day as cast by an 8th-level sorcerer.
\par Special Arrows (Ex): Pixies sometimes employ arrows that deal no damage but can erase memory or put a creature to sleep.
\par Memory Loss: An opponent struck by 
the arrow must succeed at a Will save (DC 15) or lose all memory. The subject retains skills, languages, and class abilities but forgets everything else until he or she receives a heal spell or memory restoration with limited wish, wish, or miracle.

\par Sleep: Any opponent struck by the arrow, regardless of Hit Dice, must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be affected as though by a sleep spell.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Stirge}{
\par Tiny Beast\line Hit Dice: 1d10 (5 hp)\line Initiative: +4 (Dex)\line Speed: 10 ft., fly 40 ft. (average)\line AC: 16 (+2 size, +4 Dex)\line Attacks: Touch +6\line Damage: Touch 1d3-4\line Face/Reach: 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft./0 ft.\line 
Special Attack: Attach, blood drain\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +1\line Abilities: Str 3, Dex 19, Con 10, Int 1, Wis_12, Cha 6\line Skills: Hide +14\line Feats: Weapon Finesse (touch)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest and underground\line Organization: Clutch (2-4), swarm (5-8), or flock (9-13)\line Challenge Rating: 1/2\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: -
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A stirge attacks by landing on a victim, finding a vulnerable spot, and plunging its proboscis into the flesh. This is a touch attack and can target only Small or larger creatures.
\par Attach (Ex): If a stirge hits with a touch attack, it uses its eight pincers to latch onto the opponent\rquote s body. An attached stirge has an AC of 12.
\par Blood Drain (Ex): A stirge drains blood, dealing 1d4 points of temporary Constitution damage each round it remains attached. Once it has drained 4 points of Constitution, it detaches and flies off to digest the meal.
\par }}