{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}{\list\listtemplateid483132718\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid223273566\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-307607116\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid89439896\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1661209672\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880
\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2085259680\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid865354780\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1840809790
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid-1118903468\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1556302432\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid887377187}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid887377187\listoverridecount0\ls2}}{\info{\title Monsters (B)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy3\hr16\min56}
{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min17}{\version11}{\edmins11}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2024}{\nofchars11541}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws14173}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (B)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Barghest}{
\par Barghest\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Greater Barghest
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Evil, Lawful)\tab \tab Large Outsider (Evil, Lawful)
\par Hit Dice: 6d8+6 (33 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab 9d8+18 (58 hp)
\par Initiative:+6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative) \tab +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab 30 ft. or 60 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 30 ft. or 60 ft.
\par AC:\tab 18 (+2 Dex, +6 natural)\tab \tab \tab 20 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +9 natural)
\par Attacks: Bite +9 melee, 2 claws +4 melee\tab \tab Bite +12 melee, 2 claws +7 melee
\par Damage: Bite 1d6+3, claw 1d4+1\tab \tab \tab Bite 1d8+4, claw 1d6+2
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft. (goblin form)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft. (wolf form)
\par Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities, feed\tab \tab Spell-like abilities, feed
\par Special Qualities: Damage reduction 15/+1, scent,\tab Damage reduction 15/+1, scent,
\par \tab \tab alternate form\tab \tab \tab \tab alternate form
\par Saves:\tab \tab Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +7\tab \tab Fort +8, Ref +8, Will +10
\par Abilities:\tab Str 17, Dex 15, Con 13,\tab \tab Str 19, Dex 15, Con 15,
\par \tab \tab Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14\tab \tab Int 18, Wis 18, Cha 18
\par Skills:\tab Bluff +11, Hide +11*, Intimidate +11,\tab Bluff +16, Concentration +14, Hide 
\par Jump +12, Listen +11, Move Silently +10, \tab \tab +10*, Intimidate +18, Jump +16, 
\par Spot +11\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Listen +16, Move Silently +14, \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Sense Motive +16, Spot +16
\par Feats:\tab Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative\tab Combat Casting, Combat Reflexes, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li4320\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4320\itap0 {Improved Initiative
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\tab \tab Any land and underground
\par Organization:\tab Solitary or pack (3-6)\tab \tab \tab Solitary or pack (3-6)
\par Challenge Rating: 4\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 5
\par Treasure: \tab Double standard\tab \tab \tab Double standard
\par Alignment:\tab Always lawful evil\tab \tab \tab Always lawful evil
\par Advancement:\tab 7-8 HD (Medium-size)\tab \tab 10-14 HD (Large); 15-18 HD (Huge)
\par Barghests speak Goblin, Worg, and Infernal.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par B
arghests can claw and bite, no matter what their form, and usually disdain weapons. Though they love killing, they have little stomach for direct combat and attack from ambush whenever possible. Once battle is joined, barghests hide and use project image 
to conceal their true numbers and locations, with emotion and charm person to keep opponents off balance. They try to pit as many of themselves against as few of the enemy as possible, and use their high speed to stay way from the enemy\rquote 
s main strength.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will-levitate, misdirection, and project image; 1/day-charm monster, charm person, dimension door, and emotion. These abilities are as the spells cast by a sorcerer whose level equals the barghest\rquote 
s HD (save DC 12 + spell level).
\par Feed (Su): When a barghest slays a humanoid opponent, it can feed on the corpse, devouring both flesh and life force, as a full-round action. For every 8 HD or levels a barghest consumes, it gains 1 Hit Die. Feeding destroys the victim\rquote 
s body and prevents any form of raising or resurrection that requires part of the corpse. A wish, miracle, or true resurrection spell can restore a devoured victim to life, but there is a 50% chance that even such powerful magic will fail.
\par Alternate Form (Su): A barghest can assume the form of a goblin or a large wolf as a standard action. This ability is similar to the polymorph self spell, except that it allows only goblin and_wolf forms.
\par *While in wolf form, a barghest gains the higher of the two listed speeds and a +4 circumstance bonus to Hide checks.
\par Pass Without Trace (Ex): A barghest in wolf form can pass without trace (as the spell) as a free action.
\par }{\cs21\b Greater Barghest}{
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Occasionally, a greater barghest uses a magic two-handed weapon in combat, giving it multiple attacks (attack bonus +13/+8). It can also make one bite attack (attack bonus +8) each round. The save DC against a greater barghest\rquote 
s spell-like abilities is 14 + spell level.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Basilisk}{
\par Medium-Size Magical Beast (Reptilian)\line Hit Dice: 6d10+12 (45 hp)\line Initiative: -1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 16 (-1 Dex, +7 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +8 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d8+3\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Petrifying gaze\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +4, Will +3\line Abilities: Str 15, Dex 8, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha_10\line Skills: Hide +1*, Listen +7, Spot +7\line Feats: Alertness, Great Fortitude
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or colony (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 7-10 HD (Medium-size); 11-18 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Petrifying Gaze (Su): Turn to stone permanently, range 30 feet; Fortitude negates DC 13.
\par Skills: *The basilisk\rquote s dull coloration and its ability to remain motionless for long periods of time grant it a +4 racial bonus to Hide checks in natural settings.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Behir}{
\par Huge Magical Beast (Electricity)\line Hit Dice: 9d10+45 (94 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft., climb 15 ft.\line AC: 16 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +15 melee, 6 claws +10 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d4+8, claw 1d4+4\line 
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 30 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Breath weapon, improved grab, swallow whole, constrict 2d8+8\line Special Qualities: Electricity immunity, scent, can\rquote t be tripped\line Saves: Fort +11, Ref +7, Will +5\line 
Abilities: Str 26, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 7, Wis 14, Cha 12\line Skills: Climb +18, Hide +5, Spot +7\line Feats: Cleave, Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Often neutral\line Advancement: 10-13 HD (Huge); 14-27 HD (Gargantuan)
\par Behirs speak Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A behir usually bites and grabs its prey first, then either swallows or constricts the opponent. If beset by a large number of foes, it uses its breath weapon.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Line of lightning 5 feet wide, 5 feet high, and 20 feet long, once a minute; damage 7d6, Reflex half DC 19.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the behir must hit with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can attempt to swallow or constrict the opponent.
\par Swallow Whole (Ex): A behir can try to swallow a grabbed Medium-size or smaller opponent by making a successful grapple check. A behir that swallows an opponent can use its Cleave feat to bite and grab another opponent. 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {The swallowed creature takes 2d8+8 points of crushing damage and 8 points of acid damage per round from the behir\rquote 
s gizzard. A swallowed creature can cut its way out by using a light slashing or piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to the gizzard (AC 20).  Once the creature exits, muscular
 action closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must again cut its own way out.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {The behir\rquote s gizzard can hold two Medium-size, eight Small, or thirty-two Tiny or smaller opponents.
\par Constrict (Ex): When a behir grabs a foe with its bite, it can coil its body around the foe.  A behir deals 2d8+8 damage with a successful grapple check against Gargantuan or smaller creatures.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Belker}{
\par Large Elemental (Air)\line Hit Dice: 7d8+7 (38 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (perfect)\line AC: 22 (-1 size, +5 Dex, +8 natural)\line Attacks: 2 wings +9 melee, bite +4 melee, 2 claws +4 melee\line 
Damage: Wing 1d6+2, bite 1d4+1, claw 1d3+1\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Smoke claws\line Special Qualities: Elemental, Smoke form\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +10, Will +2\line Abi
lities: Str 14, Dex 21, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11\line Skills: Listen +9, Move Silently +9, Spot +9\line Feats: Multiattack, Weapon Finesse (wing)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or clutch (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Usually _neutral evil\line Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large); 11-21 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat
\par }{\cs21 Elemental: Immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning.  Not subject to critical hits.}{\b 
\par }{In most cases, a belker fights with its nasty claws and painful bite.
\par Smoke Claws (Ex): A belker in smoke form (see below) can engulf opponents by moving on top of them. It fills the air around one Medium-size or smaller opponent without provoking an attack of opportunity. The target must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 14)
 
or inhale part of the creature. Smoke inside the victim solidifies into a claw or talon and begins to rip at the surrounding organs, dealing 3d4 points of damage per round. The affected creature can attempt another Fortitude save each subsequent round to 
cough out the semivaporous menace.
\par Smoke Form (Su): Most of the time a belker is more or less solid, but at will it can assume a smoke form. It can switch forms once a round as a free action and can spend up to 20 rounds per day in smoke form. A belker in s
moke form can fly at a speed of 50 feet (perfect maneuverability). The ability is otherwise similar to a gaseous form spell cast by a 7th-level sorcerer.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Blink Dog}{
\par Medium-Size Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 4d10 (22 hp)\line Initiative: +3 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 16 (+3 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +4 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Qualities: Blink, dimension door, scent\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 17, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 11\line Skills: Hide +8, Listen +8, Sense Motive +5, Spot +8\line Feats: Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate plains\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (7-16)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always lawful good\line Advancement: 5-7 HD (Medium-size); 8-12 HD (Large)
\par They speak their own language.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Blink dogs hunt in packs, teleporting in a seemingly random fashion until they surround their prey, allowing some of them to make flank attacks.
\par Blink (Su): A blink dog can blink as the spell cast by an 8th-level sorcerer, and can evoke or end the effect as a free action.
\par Dimension Door (Su): A blink dog can teleport as dimension door cast by an 8th-level sorcerer, once per round as a free action. The ability affects only the blink dog, which never appears within a solid object and can act immediately after teleporting.

\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Bodak}{
\par Medium-Size Undead\line Hit Dice: 9d12 (58 hp)\line Initiative: +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved \-Initiative)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 15 (+2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +6 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d8+1\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Spec
ial Attacks: Death gaze\line Special Qualities: Damage reduction 15/silver, fire and acid resistance 20, electricity immunity, sunlight vulnerability, flashbacks\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +5, Will_+7\line 
Abilities: Str 13, Dex 15, Con -, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 12\line Skills: Listen +11, Move Silently +14, Spot +13\line Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative, Weapon Focus (slam)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and \-_un\-der\-ground\line Organization: Solitary or gang (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 8\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always chaotic evil\line Advancement: 10-13 HD (Medium-size); 14-27 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Bodaks love to approach their opponents at a leisurely pace, letting their gaze do its work before closing.
\par Death Gaze (Su): Death, range 30 feet, Fortitude negates DC 15. Humanoids who die from this attack are transformed into bodaks in one day.
\par Sunlight Vulnerability (Ex): Bodaks loathe sunlight, for its merest touch burns their impure flesh. Each round of exposure to the direct rays of the sun deals 1 point of damage to the creature.
\par Flashbacks
 (Ex): From time to time, a bodak sees something that reminds it of its almost-forgotten life. At the start of every encounter, there is a 5% chance that it notices something about an opponent (randomly determined, if more than one opponent is present) th
at causes it to recall its life. If this happens, the bodak takes no action for 1 round and thereafter suffers a -2 morale penalty to all attacks directed at that opponent.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Bugbear}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Goblinoid)\line Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 17 (+1 Dex, +3 natural, +2 leather, +1 small shield)\line Attacks: Morningstar +4 melee; or javelin +3 ranged\line 
Damage: Morningstar 1d8+2; or javelin 1d6+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft.\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +1\line Abilities: Str 15, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 9\line 
Skills: Climb +2, Hide +3, Listen +3, Move Silently +6, Spot +3\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or band (11-20 plus 150% noncombatants plus 2 2nd-level sergeants and 1 leader of 2nd-5th level)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: Standard\line 
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par Bugbears speak Goblin and Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Bugbears prefer to ambush opponents whenever pos
sible. When hunting, they normally send scouts ahead of the main group who, if they spy prey, return to report and bring up reinforcements. Bugbear attacks are coordinated, and their tactics are sound if not brilliant.
\par Skills: Bugbears receive a +4 racial bonus to Move Silently checks.
\par }{\cs21\b Bugbear Characters}{
\par A bugbear\rquote s favored class is rogue. Most bugbear leaders are fighters or fighter/rogues. Bugbear clerics (favored weapon: morningstar) can choose any two of the following domains: Chaos, Evil, Trickery, and War.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Bulette}{
\par Huge Beast\line Hit Dice: 9d10+45 (94 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft., burrow 10 ft.\line AC: 22 (-2 size, +2 Dex, +12 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +12 melee, 2 claws +7 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d8+8, claw 2d6+4\line 
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Leap\line Special Qualities: Scent, tremorsense\line Saves: Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 27, Dex 15, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 6\line Skills: Jump +12, Listen +6
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or pair\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 10-16 HD (Huge); 17-27 HD (Gargantuan)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par A bulette attacks anything it regards as edible, choosing the easiest or closest prey first. The only creatures it refuses to eat are elves, an
d it dislikes dwarves. When burrowing underground, the landshark relies on vibrations to detect prey. When it senses something edible (that is, senses movement), it breaks to the surface, crest first, and begins its attack.
\par Leap (Ex): A bulette can jump into the air during combat. This allows it to make four claw attacks instead of two, but it cannot bite. The attack bonus is +12.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): Bulettes can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par }}