{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{
\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel5\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{
\s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel6\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{
\s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel7\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{
\s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel8\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{
\s21\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf6\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text 2;}{\*\cs22 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198
\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }
{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Monsters (Dragons)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy12\hr13\min52}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo1\dy28\hr11\min37}{\version10}{\edmins13}{\nofpages31}{\nofwords7817}{\nofchars44562}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws54725}{\vern8283}}\paperw15840\paperh12240\margl1440\margr1440\margt1800\margb1800 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1800\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \lndscpsxn\psz1\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }{\cs19 MONSTERS (Dragons)
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Dragon
\par }{Dragon Age Categories
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx456\tx1905\tx3341\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b \tab Category\tab Age (Years)
\par }{1\tab Wyrmling\tab 0-5
\par 2\tab Very young\tab 6-15
\par 3\tab Young\tab 16-25
\par 4\tab Juvenile\tab 26-50
\par 5\tab Young adult\tab 51-100
\par 6\tab Adult\tab 101-200
\par 7\tab Mature adult\tab 201-400
\par 8\tab Old\tab 401-600
\par 9\tab Very old\tab 601-800
\par 10\tab Ancient\tab 801-1,000
\par 11\tab Wyrm\tab 1,001-1,200
\par 12\tab Great wyrm\tab 1,201+
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx3341\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {All dragons speak Draconic.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Dragon Face and Reach
\par Size\tab \tab Face\tab \tab \tab Reach
\par ----\tab \tab ----\tab \tab \tab -----
\par Tiny\tab \tab 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.\tab 5 ft.*
\par Small\tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft.
\par Medium-size\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Large\tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft.\tab \tab 
10 ft.*
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Huge\tab \tab 10 ft. by 20 ft.\tab 10 ft.
\par Gargantuan\tab 20 ft. by 40 ft.\tab 15 ft.
\par Colossal\tab 40 ft. by 80 ft.\tab 15 ft.
\par *Greater than normal reach for a creature of this size.
\par 
\par Dragon Attacks
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1 Tail \tab \tab \tab \tab 1 Tail
\par Size\tab \tab 1 Bite\tab 2 Claws\tab 2 Wings\tab Slap \tab \tab 1 Crush\tab Sweep
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 ----\tab \tab ------\tab -------\tab \tab -------
\tab \tab ------\tab \tab -------\tab \tab ------
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Tiny\tab \tab 1d4\tab 1d3\tab \tab -\tab \tab -\tab \tab -\tab \tab -
\par Small\tab \tab 1d6\tab 1d4\tab \tab -\tab \tab -\tab \tab -\tab \tab -
\par Medium-size\tab 1d8\tab 1d6\tab \tab 1d4\tab \tab -\tab \tab -\tab \tab -
\par Large\tab \tab 2d6\tab 1d8\tab \tab 1d6\tab \tab 1d8\tab \tab -\tab \tab -
\par Huge\tab \tab 2d8\tab 2d6\tab \tab 1d8\tab \tab 2d6\tab \tab 2d8\tab \tab -
\par Gargantuan\tab 4d6\tab 2d8\tab \tab 2d6\tab \tab 2d8\tab \tab 4d6\tab \tab 2d6
\par Colossal\tab 4d8\tab 4d6\tab \tab 2d8\tab \tab 4d6\tab \tab 4d8\tab \tab 2d8
\par 
\par Bite: Bite attacks deal the listed damage plus the dragon\rquote s Strength bonus. The dragon also can use its bite to snatch opponents (see the descriptions of feats below). Bite attacks use the full attack bonus.
\par Claw: Claw attacks deal the listed damage plus half the dragon\rquote s Strength bonus (round down). The dragon also can use its claws to snatch opponents (see the descriptions of feats below). Claw attacks are at -5 to the attack bonus.
\par Wing: The dragon can slam opponents with its wings, even when flying. Wing attacks deal the listed damage plus half the dragon\rquote s Strength bonus (round down) and are at -5 to the attack bonus.
\par Tail Slap: The dragon can slap one opponent each round with its tail. A tail slap deals the listed damage plus 1 1/2 times the dragon\rquote s Strength bonus (round down) and is at -5 to the attack bonus.
\par Crush: A flying or jumping dragon of at least Huge size can land on opponents as a standard action, using its whole body to crush them. Crush attacks are effective only against opponents three or more sizes s
maller than the dragon (though it can attempt normal overrun or grapple attacks against larger opponents).
\par A crush attack affects as many creatures as can fit under the dragon\rquote s body (see Table: Dragon Face and Reach above). Creatures in the affected area must succeed at a Reflex save against a DC equal to that of the dragon\rquote 
s breath weapon or be pinned, automatically taking bludgeoning damage during the next round unless the dragon moves off them. If the dragon chooses to maintain the pin, treat it as a no
rmal grapple attack. Pinned opponents take crush damage each round if they don\rquote t escape.
\par A crush attack deals the listed damage plus 1 1/2 times the dragon\rquote s Strength bonus (round down).
\par Tail Sweep: A dragon of at least Gargantuan size can sweep with its tail as a standard action. The sweep affects a half circle with a diameter of 30 feet, centered on the dragon\rquote s rear. A Colossal dragon\rquote 
s tail sweep has a 40-foot radius. Creatures within the swept area are affected if they are four or more sizes smaller than the dragon. The sweep automatically deals the listed damage plus 1 1/2 times the dragon\rquote 
s Strength bonus (round down). Affected creatures can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage, against a DC equal to that of the dragon\rquote s breath weapon.
\par Grappling: Dragons do not favor grapple attacks, though their crush attack and Snatch feat (see the descriptions of feats) use normal grapple rules.
\par If grappled by a creature the same size or larger, a dragon can return the attack with its bite and all four legs (the
 rear legs deal claw damage). If snatched or crushed by a larger dragon, a dragon can respond only with grapple attacks to try winning free, or with bite or breath weapon attacks. If grappled by a creature smaller than itself, the dragon can respond with 
any of its physical attacks other than a tail sweep.
\par The dragon can always use its breath weapon while grappling, as well as its spells and spell-like or supernatural abilities, provided it succeeds at Concentration checks.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Using a breath weapon is a standard action. Once a dragon breathes, it can\rquote 
t breathe again until 1d4 rounds later. If the dragon has more than one type of breath weapon, it still can breathe only once every 1d4 rounds. A blast from a breath weapon always starts at the dragon\rquote 
s mouth and extends in a direction of the dragon\rquote s choice, with an area as noted below. If the breath weapon deals damage, creatures caught in the area can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage; the DC depends on the dragon\rquote 
s age and type, listed in the individual entry. Saves against nondamaging breath weapons use the same DC, but the types vary as noted in the variety descriptions.
\par Breath weapons come in two basic shapes, line and cone, whose areas vary with the dragon\rquote s size.
\par Dragon Breath Weapons
\par Dragon Size\tab Line* (Length)\tab Cone** (Length)
\par -----------\tab --------------\tab \tab ---------------
\par Tiny\tab \tab 30 ft. \tab \tab \tab 15 ft.
\par Small\tab \tab 40 ft. \tab \tab \tab 20 ft.
\par Medium-size\tab 60 ft. \tab \tab \tab 30 ft.
\par Large\tab \tab 80 ft. \tab \tab \tab 40 ft.
\par Huge\tab \tab 100 ft. \tab \tab \tab 50 ft.
\par Gargantuan\tab 120 ft. \tab \tab \tab 60 ft.
\par Colossal\tab 140 ft.\tab \tab \tab 70 ft.
\par *A line is always 5 feet high and 5 feet wide.
\par **A cone is as high and wide as its length.
\par Frightful Presence (Ex): A young adult or older dragon can unsettle foes with its mere presence. The ability takes effect automatically whenever the dragon attacks, charges, or flies overhead. Creatures within a radius of 30 feet x the dragon\rquote 
s age category are subject to the effect if they have fewer HD than the dragon.
\par A potentially affected creature that succeeds at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 dragon\rquote s HD + dragon\rquote s Charisma modifier) remains immune to that dragon\rquote 
s frightful presence for one day. On a failure, creatures with 4 or fewer HD become panicked for 4d6 rounds and those with 5 or more HD become shaken for 4d6 rounds. Dragons ignore the frightful presence of other dragons.
\par Spells: A dragon knows and casts arcane spells as a sorcerer of the level indicated in its variety description, gaining bonus spells for a high Charisma score. Some dragons can also cast spells from the cleric list or cleric domains as arcane spells.

\par Spell-Like Abilities: A dragon\rquote s spell-like abilities depend on its age and variety. It gains the abilities listed for its age plus all previous ones, using its age category or its sorcerer caster level, whichever is higher, as th
e caster level. The save DC is 10 + dragon\rquote s Charisma modifier + spell level. All spell-like abilities are usable once per day unless otherwise specified.
\par Immunities (Ex): All dragons are immune to sleep and paralysis effects. Each variety of dragon is immune to one or two additional forms of attack no matter what its age, as listed in its description.
\par Spell Resistance (Ex): As dragons age, they become more resistant to spells and spell-like abilities, as listed in the variety descriptions.
\par Blindsight (Ex): A dragon can ascertain creatures by nonvisual means (mostly hearing and scent, but also by noticing vibration and other environmental clues) with a range of 30 feet x the dragon\rquote s age category.
\par Keen Senses (Ex): A dragon sees four times as well a human in low-light conditions and twice as well in normal light. It also has darkvision with a range of 100 feet x the dragon\rquote s age category.
\par Skills: All dragons start with 6 skill points per Hit Die, plus bonus points equal to Intelligence modifier x HD, and purc
hase the following skills at 1 rank per Hit Die: Listen, Spot, and Search. The remaining skill points are generally spent on Bluff, Concentration, Diplomacy, Escape Artist, Knowledge (any), and Scry at a cost of 1 skill point per rank. Dragons cannot purc
hase skills that are exclusive to a class.
\par Dragons that can cast spells have the Spellcraft skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die, provided they have an Intelligence bonus of at least +1 (Intelligence score 12+).
\par Red, copper, gold, and silver dragons have the Jump skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die.
\par Feats: All dragons have one feat, plus an additional feat per 4 HD. Dragons favor Alertness, Cleave (claw or tail slap attacks only), Improved Initiative, Power Attack, Sunder, Weapon Focus (claw or bite), and a
ny metamagic feat that is available and useful to sorcerers. Dragons can also choose from the following feats:
\par Flyby Attack 
\par Hover: When flying, a dragon can halt its forward motion and hover in place, fly straight down, or fly straight up regardless of it
s maneuverability. While hovering, it can attack with its bite and all four feet (its hind feet deal claw damage) and can make tail slap attacks if normally allowed to do so. If it can make a tail sweep, it can do so while hovering but can make no other a
t
tacks. A hovering dragon cannot make wing attacks. It can use its breath weapon instead of making physical attacks. If a dragon hovers close to the ground in an area with lots of loose debris, the draft from its wings creates a hemispherical cloud with a 
radius of 30 feet x the dragon\rquote 
s age category. The winds so generated can snuff torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns, and other small, open flames of nonmagical origin. The cloud obscures vision, and creatures caught within are blinded while inside an
d for 1 round after emerging. Those caught in the cloud must succeed at a Concentration check (DC 10 + 1/2 dragon\rquote s HD) to cast a spell. 
\par Quicken Spell-Like Ability: The dragon can use one of its spell-like abilities each round as a free action. 
\par Snatch: A
 dragon that hits with a claw or bite attack attempts to start a grapple as though it had the improved grab special attack. If the dragon gets a hold with a claw on a creature four or more sizes smaller, it squeezes each round for automatic claw damage. I
f
 it gets a hold with its bite on a creature three or more sizes smaller, it automatically deals bite damage each round, or if it does not move and takes no other action in combat, it deals double bite damage to the snatched creature. A snatched creature g
ets no saving throw against the dragon\rquote 
s breath weapon. The dragon can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action or use a standard action to fling it aside. A flung creature travels 10 feet, and takes 1d6 points of damage, per age category of the dra
gon. If the dragon flings it while flying, the creature suffers this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater. 
\par Wingover: A flying dragon can change direction quickly once each round. This feat allows it to turn up to 180 degrees regardless of its ma
neuverability, in addition to any other turns it is normally allowed. A dragon cannot gain altitude during the round it executes a wingover, but it can dive. 
\par Dragon Overland Movement
\par Dragons are exceedingly strong flyers and can cover vast distances quickly.
\par Dragon Overland Flying Speeds
\par Flight Speed\tab 100 feet\tab 150 feet\tab 200 feet\tab 250 feet
\par ------------\tab --------\tab \tab --------\tab \tab --------\tab \tab --------
\par }{\cs22\b One Hour}{
\par Normal\tab 15 miles\tab 20 miles\tab 30 miles\tab 40 miles
\par Hustle\tab \tab 24 miles\tab 40 miles\tab 60 miles\tab 80 miles
\par }{\cs22\b One Day}{
\par Normal \tab 120 miles\tab 160 miles\tab 240 miles\tab 320 miles
\par Dragons do not tire as quickly as other creatures when moving overland. If a dragon attempts a hustle or forced march, check for subdual damage once every 2 hours instead of every hour.
\par }{\cs22\b Dragonhide}{
\par Armorsmiths can work with dr
agonhides to produce masterwork armor or shields for the normal cost. One dragon produces enough hide for a single suit of masterwork hide armor for a creature up to one size smaller than the dragon. By selecting only choice scales and bits of hide, an ar
m
orsmith can produce one suit of masterwork banded mail for a creature up to two sizes smaller, one suit of masterwork half-plate for a creature three sizes smaller, or one masterwork breastplate or suit of full plate for a creature four sizes smaller. In 
each case, there is enough hide to produce a small or large masterwork shield in addition to the armor, provided that the dragon is of at least Large size.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Black Dragon}{
\par Dragon (Water)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any marsh and underground
\par Organization:
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings:
\par Wyrmling 2;
\par Very young 3; 
\par Young 4; 
\par Juvenile 6; 
\par Young adult 8; 
\par Adult 10; 
\par Mature adult 13; 
\par Old 15; 
\par Very old 17; 
\par Ancient 18; 
\par Wyrm 19; 
\par Great wyrm 21
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic evil
\par Advancement:
\par Wyrmling 5-6 HD (Small); 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Very young 8-9 HD (Small); 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Young 11-12 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 14-15 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young adult 17-18 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 20-21 HD (Large); 
\par Mature adult 23-24 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 26-27 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 29-30 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 32-33 HD (Huge); 
\par Wyrm 35-36 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 38+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Black Dragons by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear

\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ----------\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab T\tab 4d12+4 (30)\tab \tab 15 (+2 size, +3 natural) +6\tab +5\tab +4\tab +4\tab 2d4 \tab (13)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab S\tab 7d12+7 (52)\tab \tab 17 (+1 size, +6 natural) +9\tab +6\tab +5\tab +5\tab 4d4 \tab (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 10d12+20 (85)\tab 19 (+9 natural)\tab \tab +12\tab +9\tab +7\tab +7\tab 6d4 \tab (17)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab M\tab 13d12+26 (110)\tab 22 (+12 natural)\tab \tab +16\tab +10\tab +8\tab +8\tab 8d4 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 16d12+48 (152)\tab 24 (-1 size, +15 natural) +19\tab +13\tab +10\tab +11\tab 10d4\tab (22)\tab 19\tab 17
\par Adult\tab \tab L\tab 19d12+76 (199)\tab 27 (-1 size, +18 natural) +24\tab +15\tab +11\tab +12\tab 12d4\tab (23)\tab 20\tab 18
\par Mature adult H\tab 22d12+110 (253)\tab 29 (-2 size, +21 natural) +28\tab +18\tab +13\tab +15\tab 14d4\tab (26)\tab 23\tab 21
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 25d12+125 (287)\tab 32 (-2 size, +24 natural) +32 +19\tab +14\tab +16\tab 16d4 \tab (27)\tab 24\tab 22
\par Very old\tab H\tab 28d12+168 (350)\tab 35 (-2 size, +27 natural) +36 +22\tab +16\tab +19\tab 18d4 \tab (30)\tab 27\tab 23
\par Ancient\tab H\tab 31d12+186 (387)\tab 38 (-2 size, +30 natural) +40\tab +23\tab +17\tab +20\tab 20d4 \tab (31)\tab 28\tab 25
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 34d12+238 (459)\tab 39 (-4 size, +33 natural) +42 +26\tab +19\tab +23\tab 22d4 \tab (34)\tab 31\tab 26
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 37d12+296 (536)\tab 42 (-4 size, +36 natural) +46 +28\tab +20\tab +25\tab 24d4 \tab (36)\tab 33\tab 28
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Black Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab 
Special Abilities\tab Caster Level
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af0 Wyrmling\tab 60 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 11\tab 10
\tab 13\tab 8\tab 11\tab 8\tab Acid immunity,\tab \tab -
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 \tab \tab (average), swim 60 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab water breathing
\par Very young\tab 60 ft., fly 100 ft. \tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 8\tab 11\tab 8\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), swim 60 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft. \tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Darkness\tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Corrupt water\tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Mature adult 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Plant growth\tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Very old\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft. \tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Insect plague\tab \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft. \tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Charm reptiles\tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par }{Breath Weapon (Su): A black dragon has one type of breath weapon, a line of acid.
\par Water Breathing (Ex): The dragon can breathe underwater indefinitely and can freely use its breath weapon, spells, and other abilities while submerged.
\par Corrupt Water (Sp): Once per day the dragon can stagnate 10 cubic feet of water, making it become still, foul, and unable to support animal life. The ability spoils liquids containing water. Magic items (such as potions) and items in a creature\rquote 
s possession must succeed at a Will save (DC equal to that of the dragon\rquote s frightful presence) or become fouled.
\par Charm Reptiles (Sp): The dragon can use this ability three times per day. It operates as a mass charm spell that works only on reptilian animals. The dragon can communicate with any charmed reptiles as though casting a speak with animals spell.
\par Other Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-darkness (radius 10 feet per age category) and insect plague; 1/day-plant growth.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Blue Dragon}{
\par Dragon (Earth)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm desert and underground
\par Organization:
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings:
\par Wyrmling 2;
\par Very young 3;
\par Young 5;
\par Juvenile 7;
\par Young adult 10;
\par Adult 13;
\par Mature adult 15;
\par Old 17;
\par Very old 18;
\par Ancient 20;
\par Wyrm 22;
\par Great wyrm 24
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always lawful evil
\par Advancement
\par Wyrmling 7-8 HD (Small);
\par Very young 10-11 HD (Medium-size);
\par Young 13-14 HD (Medium-size);
\par Juvenile 16-17 HD (Large);
\par Young adult 19-20 HD (Large);
\par Adult 22-23 HD (Huge);
\par Mature adult 25-26 HD (Huge);
\par Old 28-29 HD (Huge);
\par Very old 31-32 HD (Huge);
\par Ancient 34-35 HD (Gargantuan);
\par Wyrm 37-38 HD (Gargan\-tuan);
\par Great wyrm 40+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par Blue Dragons by Age
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af0 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab 
Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab S\tab 6d12+6 (45)\tab \tab 16 (+1 size, +5 natural) +8\tab +6\tab +5\tab +5\tab 2d8 (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab M\tab 9d12+18 (76)\tab 18 (+8 natural)\tab \tab +11 \tab +8\tab +6\tab +6\tab 4d8 (16)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 12d12+24 (102)\tab 21 (+11 natural)\tab \tab +15\tab +10\tab +8\tab +9\tab 6d8 (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 15d12+45 (142)\tab 23 (-1 size, +14 natural) +18\tab +12\tab +9\tab +11\tab 8d8 (20)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 18d12+72 (189)\tab 26 (-1 size, +17 natural) +23\tab +15\tab +11\tab +13\tab 10d8 (23)\tab 21\tab 19
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 21d12+105 (241)\tab 28 (-2 size, +20 natural) +27\tab +17\tab +12\tab +15\tab 12d8 (25)\tab 23\tab 21
\par Mature adult H\tab 24d12+120 (276)\tab 31 (-2 size, +23 natural) +31\tab +19\tab +14\tab +17\tab 14d8 (27)\tab 25\tab 22
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 27d12+162 (337)\tab 34 (-2 size, +26 natural) +35 +21\tab +15\tab +19\tab 16d8 (29)\tab 27\tab 24
\par Very old\tab H\tab 30d12+180 (375)\tab 37 (-2 size, +29 natural) +39 +23\tab +17\tab +21\tab 18d8 (31)\tab 29\tab 25
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 33d12+231 (445)\tab 38 (-4 size, +32 natural) +41\tab +25\tab +18\tab +23\tab 20d8 (33)\tab 31\tab 27
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 36d12+288 (522)\tab 41 (-4 size, +35 natural) +45 +28\tab +20\tab +25\tab 22d8 (36)\tab 33\tab 29
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 39d12+312 (565)\tab 44 (-4 size, +38 natural) +49 +29\tab +21\tab +27\tab 24d8 (37)\tab 35\tab 31
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Blue Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab 
Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Electricity immunity,\tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), burrow 20 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab create/destroy water
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Sound imitation\tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft..\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Ventriloquism\tab \tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Hallucinatory terrain\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 20 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Veil\tab \tab \tab \tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), burrow 20 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), burrow 20 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 39\tab 10\tab 27\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Mirage arcana\tab \tab 17th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), burrow 20 ft.
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Air, Evil, and Law domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A blue dragon has one type of breath weapon, a line of lightning.
\par Create/Destroy Water (Sp): The dragon can use this ability three times per day. It works like the create water spell, except that the dragon can decide to destroy water i
nstead of creating it, which automatically spoils unattended liquids containing water. Magic items (such as potions) and items in a creature\rquote s possession must succeed at a Will save (DC equal to that of the dragon\rquote 
s frightful presence) or be ruined.
\par Sound Imitation (Ex): The dragon can mimic any voice or sound it has heard, anytime it likes. Listeners must succeed at a Will save (DC equal to that of the dragon\rquote s frightful presence) to detect the ruse.
\par Other Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-ventriloquism; 1/day-hallucinatory terrain, veil, and mirage arcana.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Green Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Air)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 2; 
\par Very young 3; 
\par Young 4; 
\par Juvenile 7; 
\par Young adult 10; 
\par Adult 12; 
\par Mature adult 15; 
\par Old 17; 
\par Very old 18; 
\par Ancient 20; 
\par Wyrm 21; 
\par Great wyrm 23
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always lawful evil
\par Advancement: Wyrmling 6-7 HD (Small); 
\par Very young 9-10 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young 12-13 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 15-16 HD (Large); 
\par Young adult 18-19 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 21-22 HD (Huge); 
\par Mature adult 24-25 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 27-28 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 30-31 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 33-34 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Wyrm 36-37 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 39+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par Green Dragons by Age
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af0 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab 
Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ------\tab ----\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab S\tab 5d12+5 (37)\tab \tab 15 (+1 size, +4 natural) +7\tab +5\tab +4\tab +4\tab 2d6 \tab (13)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab M\tab 8d12+16 (68)\tab 17 (+7 natural)\tab \tab +10 \tab +8\tab +6\tab +6\tab 4d6 \tab (16)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 11d12+22 (93)\tab 20 (+10 natural)\tab \tab +14\tab +9\tab +7\tab +8\tab 6d6 \tab (17)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 14d12+42 (133)\tab 22 (-1 size, +13 natural) +17\tab +12\tab +9\tab +11\tab 8d6 \tab (20)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 17d12+68 (178)\tab 25 (-1 size, +16 natural) +22\tab +14\tab +10\tab +12\tab 10d6 \tab (22)\tab 20\tab 19
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 20d12+100 (230)\tab 27 (-2 size, +19 natural) +26\tab +17\tab +12\tab +15\tab 12d6 \tab (25)\tab 23\tab 21
\par Mature adult H\tab 23d12+115 (264)\tab 30 (-2 size, +22 natural) +30\tab +18\tab +13\tab +16\tab 14d6 \tab (26)\tab 24\tab 22
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 26d12+156 (325)\tab 33 (-2 size, +25 natural) +34 +21\tab +15\tab +19\tab 16d6 \tab (29)\tab 27\tab 24
\par Very old\tab H\tab 29d12+174 (362)\tab 36 (-2 size, +28 natural) +38 +22\tab +16\tab +20\tab 18d6 \tab (30)\tab 28\tab 25
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 32d12+224 (432)\tab 37 (-4 size, +31 natural) +40\tab +25\tab +18\tab +23\tab 20d6 \tab (33)\tab 31\tab 27
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 35d12+280 (507)\tab 40 (-4 size, +34 natural) +44 +27\tab +19\tab +24\tab 22d6 \tab (35)\tab 32\tab 28
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 38d12+304 (551)\tab 43 (-4 size, +37 natural) +48 +29\tab +21\tab +27\tab 24d6 \tab (37)\tab 35\tab 30
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Green Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab 
Special Abilities\tab Caster Level
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Acid immunity,\tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), swim 40 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab water breathing
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Suggestion\tab \tab \tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Plant growth\tab \tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 40 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Dominate person\tab \tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 40 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 20/+2\tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 40 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 39\tab 10\tab 27\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Command plants\tab \tab 17th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 40 ft.
\par }{Breath Weapon (Su): A green dragon has one type of breath weapon, a cone of corrosive (acid) gas.
\par Water Breathing (Ex): The dragon can breathe underwater indefinitely and can freely use its breath weapon, spells, and other abilities while submerged.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-suggestion and dominate person; 1/day-plant growth and command plants.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Red Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Fire)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm hill, mountains, and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 3; 
\par Very young 4; 
\par Young 6; 
\par Juvenile 9; 
\par Young adult 12; 
\par Adult 14; 
\par Mature adult 17; 
\par Old 19; 
\par Very old 20; 
\par Ancient 22; 
\par Wyrm 23; 
\par Great wyrm 25
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic evil
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 8-9 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Very young 11-12 HD (Large); 
\par Young 14-15 HD (Large); 
\par Juvenile 17-18 HD (Large); 
\par Young adult 20-21 HD (Huge); 
\par Adult 23-24 HD (Huge); 
\par Mature adult 26-27 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 29-30 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Very old 32-33 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Ancient 35-36 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Wyrm 38-39 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 41+ HD (Colossal)
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Red Dragons by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear

\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab M\tab 7d12+14 (59)\tab 16 (+6 natural)\tab \tab +10\tab +7\tab +5\tab +5\tab 2d10 \tab (15)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab L\tab 10d12+30 (95)\tab 18 (-1 size, +9 natural) +14 \tab +10\tab +7\tab +8\tab 4d10 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab L\tab 13d12+39 (123)\tab 21 (-1 size, +12 natural) +19\tab +11\tab +8\tab +9\tab 6d10 \tab (19)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 16d12+64 (168)\tab 24 (-1 size, +15 natural) +24\tab +14\tab +10\tab +12\tab 8d10 \tab (22)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab H\tab 19d12+95 (218)\tab 26 (-2 size, +18 natural) +27\tab +16\tab +11\tab +13\tab 10d10 (24)\tab 21\tab 19
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 22d12+110 (253)\tab 29 (-2 size, +21 natural) +31\tab +18\tab +13\tab +17\tab 12d10 (25)\tab 24\tab 21
\par Mature adult H\tab 25d12+150 (312)\tab 32 (-2 size, +24 natural) +34\tab +20\tab +14\tab +18\tab 14d10 (28)\tab 26\tab 23
\par Old\tab \tab G\tab 28d12+196 (378)\tab 33 (-4 size, +27 natural) +36 +23\tab +16\tab +21\tab 16d10 (30)\tab 29\tab 24
\par Very old\tab G\tab 31d12+248 (449)\tab 36 (-4 size, +30 natural) +40\tab +25\tab +17\tab +23\tab 18d10 (33)\tab 31\tab 26
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 34d12+306 (527)\tab 39 (-4 size, +33 natural) +44\tab +28\tab +19\tab +26\tab 20d10 (35)\tab 34\tab 28
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 37d12+370 (610)\tab 42 (-4 size, +36 natural) +48\tab +30\tab +20\tab +27\tab 22d10 (38)\tab 35\tab 30
\par Great wyrm\tab C\tab 40d12+400 (660)\tab 41 (-8 size, +39 natural) +49 +32\tab +22\tab +30\tab 24d10 (40)\tab 38\tab 32
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Red Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab 
Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Fire subtype\tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 21\tab 10\tab 17\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 25\tab 10\tab 17\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 19\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Locate object\tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 21\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 19\tab 16\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft. \tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Suggestion\tab \tab \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft. \tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Ancient\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft. \tab 39\tab 10\tab 29\tab 24\tab 25\tab 24\tab Find the path\tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft. \tab 41\tab 10\tab 31\tab 24\tab 25\tab 24\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft. \tab 45\tab 10\tab 31\tab 26\tab 27\tab 26\tab Discern location\tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Chaos, Evil, and Fire domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A red dragon has one type of breath weapon, a cone of fire.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Locate Object (Sp): The dragon can use this ability as the spell of the same name, once per day per age category.
\par Other Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-suggestion; 1/day-find the path and discern location.
\par Skills: Red dragons have the Jump skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i White Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Cold)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any cold land and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 1; 
\par Very young 2; 
\par Young 3; 
\par Juvenile 5; 
\par Young adult 7; 
\par Adult 9; 
\par Mature adult 11; 
\par Old 14; 
\par Very old 16; 
\par Ancient 17; 
\par Wyrm 18; 
\par Great wyrm 20
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic evil
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 4-5 HD (Tiny); 
\par Very young 7-8 HD (Small); 
\par Young 10-11 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 13-14 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young adult 16-17 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 19-20 HD (Large); 
\par Mature adult 22-23 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 25-26 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 28-29 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 31-32 HD (Huge); 
\par Wyrm 34-35 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 37+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par White Dragons by Age
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af0 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
\tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath \tab Fear
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab 
Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab T\tab 3d12+3 (22)\tab \tab 14 (+2 size, +2 natural) +5\tab +4\tab +3\tab +3\tab 1d6 \tab (12)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab S\tab 6d12+6 (45)\tab \tab 16 (+1 size, +5 natural) +8 \tab +6\tab \tab +5\tab +5\tab 2d6 \tab (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 9d12+18 (76)\tab 18 (+8 natural)\tab \tab  +11\tab +8\tab +6\tab +6\tab 3d6 \tab (16)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab M\tab 12d12+24 (102)\tab 21 (+11 natural)\tab \tab  +15\tab +10\tab +8\tab +8\tab 4d6 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 15d12+45 (142)\tab 23 (-1 size, +14 natural) +18\tab +12\tab +9\tab +9\tab 5d6 \tab (20)\tab 16\tab 16
\par Adult\tab \tab L\tab 18d12+72 (189)\tab 26 (-1 size, +17 natural) +23\tab +15\tab +11\tab +11\tab 6d6 \tab (23)\tab 19\tab 18
\par Mature adult H\tab 21d12+105 (241)\tab 28 (-2 size, +20 natural) +27\tab +17\tab +12\tab +13\tab 7d6 \tab (25)\tab 21\tab 20
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 24d12+120 (276)\tab 31 (-2 size, +23 natural) +31 +19\tab +14\tab +15\tab 8d6 \tab (27)\tab 23\tab 21
\par Very old\tab H\tab 27d12+162 (337)\tab 34 (-2 size, +26 natural) +35 +21\tab +15\tab +17\tab 9d6 \tab (29)\tab 25\tab 23
\par Ancient\tab H\tab 30d12+180 (375)\tab 37 (-2 size, +29 natural) +39\tab +23\tab +17\tab +19\tab 10d6\tab (31)\tab 27\tab 24
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 33d12+231 (445)\tab 38 (-4 size, +32 natural) +41 +25\tab +18\tab +20\tab 11d6\tab (33)\tab 29\tab 25
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 36d12+288 (522)\tab 41 (-4 size, +35 natural) +45 +28\tab +20\tab +24\tab 12d6\tab (36)\tab 32\tab 27
\par }{White Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 11\tab 10\tab 13\tab 6\tab 11\tab 6\tab Cold subtype,\tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab icewalking
\par \tab \tab 
\par Very young\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 6\tab 11\tab 6\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 6\tab 11\tab 6\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 8\tab 11\tab 8\tab Fog cloud\tab \tab \tab -
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f2\fs20 (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 Young adult\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 8\tab 11\tab 8\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Gust of wind\tab \tab 1st
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f2\fs20 (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 Mature adult 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 3rd
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f2\fs20 (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 Old\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Freezing fog\tab \tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Very old\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Wall of ice\tab \tab \tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 14\tab 15\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Control weather\tab \tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft., burrow 30 ft.
\par }{Breath Weapon (Su): A white dragon has one type of breath weapon, a cone of cold.
\par Cold Subtype (Ex): Cold immunity, double damage from fire except on a successful save.
\par Icewalking (Ex): This ability works like the spider climb spell, but the surfaces the dragon climbs must be icy. It is always in effect.
\par Freezing Fog (Sp): The dragon can use this ability three times per day. It is similar to a s
olid fog spell but also causes a rime of slippery ice to form on any surface the fog touches, creating the effect of a grease spell. The dragon is immune to the grease effect because of its ice\-walking ability.
\par Other Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-gust of wind, fog cloud, wall of ice; 1/day-control weather.
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel4\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i 
\par Brass Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Fire)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm desert, plains, and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 \-offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 2; 
\par Very young 3; 
\par Young 5; 
\par Juvenile 7; 
\par Young adult 9; 
\par Adult 11; 
\par Mature adult 14; 
\par Old 16; 
\par Very old 18; 
\par Ancient 19; 
\par Wyrm 20; 
\par Great wyrm 22
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic good
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 5-6 HD (Tiny); 
\par Very young 8-9 HD (Small); 
\par Young 11-12 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 14-15 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young adult 17-18 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 20-21 HD (Large); 
\par Mature adult 23-24 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 26-27 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 29-30 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 32-33 HD (Huge); 
\par Wyrm 35-36 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 38+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par Brass Dragons by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab T\tab 4d12+4 (30)\tab \tab 15 (+2 size, +3 natural) +6\tab +5\tab +4\tab +4\tab 1d6 \tab (13)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab S\tab 7d12+7 (52)\tab \tab 17 (+1 size, +6 natural) +9 \tab +6\tab +5\tab +5\tab 2d6 \tab (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 10d12+20 (85)\tab 19 (+9 natural)\tab \tab  +12\tab +9\tab +7\tab +8\tab 3d6 \tab (17)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab M\tab 13d12+26 (110)\tab 22 (+12 natural)\tab \tab  +16\tab +10\tab +8\tab +9\tab 4d6 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 16d12+48 (152)\tab 24 (-1 size, +15 natural) +19\tab +13\tab +10\tab +12\tab 5d6 \tab (21)\tab 20\tab 18
\par Adult\tab \tab L\tab 19d12+76 (199)\tab 27 (-1 size, +18 natural) +24\tab +15\tab +11\tab +13\tab 6d6 \tab (23)\tab 21\tab 20
\par Mature adult H\tab 22d12+110 (253)\tab 29 (-2 size, +21 natural) +28\tab +18\tab +13\tab +16\tab 7d6 \tab (26)\tab 24\tab 22
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 25d12+125 (287)\tab 32 (-2 size, +24 natural) +32 +19\tab +14\tab +17\tab 8d6 \tab (27)\tab 25\tab 24
\par Very old\tab H\tab 28d12+168 (350)\tab 35 (-2 size, +27 natural) +36 +22\tab +16\tab +20\tab 9d6 \tab (30)\tab 28\tab 25
\par Ancient\tab H\tab 31d12+186 (387)\tab 38 (-2 size, +30 natural) +40\tab +23\tab +17\tab +21\tab 10d6 \tab (31)\tab 29\tab 27
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 34d12+238 (459)\tab 39 (-4 size, +33 natural) +42 +26\tab +19\tab +24\tab 11d6 \tab (34)\tab 32\tab 28
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 37d12+296 (536)\tab 42 (-4 size, +36 natural) +46 +28\tab +20\tab +25\tab 12d6 \tab (36)\tab 33\tab 30
\par }{Brass Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 11\tab 10\tab 13\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab Fire subtype, \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), burrow 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab speak with animals
\par Very young\tab 60 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 10\tab 11\tab 10\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), burrow 30 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Endure elements\tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Suggestion\tab \tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Mature adult 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Control winds\tab \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Very old\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Control weather\tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (poor), burrow 30 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), burrow 30 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Summon djinni\tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), burrow 30 ft.
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Chaos and Knowledge domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A brass dragon has two types of breath weapon, a line of fire or a cone of sleep. Creatures within the cone must succeed at a Will save or fall asleep, regardless of HD, for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon.

\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will-speak with animals; 3/day-endure elements (radius 10 ft. x dragon\rquote s age category); 1/day-suggestion, control winds, and control weather.
\par Summon Djinni (Sp): This ability works like a summon monster spell, except that it summons one djinni.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel5\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Bronze Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Water)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm aquatic and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 2; 
\par very young 4; 
\par young 6; 
\par juvenile 8; 
\par young adult 11; 
\par adult 14; 
\par mature adult 16; 
\par old 18; 
\par very old 19; 
\par ancient 21; 
\par wyrm 22; 
\par great wyrm 24
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always lawful good
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 7-8 HD (Small); 
\par very young 10-11 HD (Medium-size); 
\par young 13-14 HD (Medium-size); 
\par juvenile 16-17 HD (Large); 
\par young adult 19-20 HD (Large); 
\par adult 22-23 HD (Huge); 
\par mature adult 25-26 HD (Huge); 
\par old 28-29 HD (Huge); 
\par very old 31-32 HD (Huge); 
\par ancient 34-35 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par wyrm 37-38 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par great wyrm 40+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par Bronze Dragons by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab S\tab 6d12+6 (45)\tab \tab 16 (+1 size, +5 natural) +8\tab +6\tab +5\tab +7\tab 2d6 \tab (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab M\tab 9d12+18 (76)\tab 18 (+8 natural)\tab \tab  +11 \tab +8\tab +6\tab +8\tab 4d6 \tab (16)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 12d12+24 (102)\tab 21 (+11 natural)\tab \tab +15\tab +10\tab +8\tab +11\tab 6d6 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 15d12+45 (142)\tab 23 (-1 size, +14 natural) +18\tab +12\tab +9\tab +13\tab 8d6 \tab (20)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 18d12+72 (189)\tab 26 (-1 size, +17 natural) +23\tab +15\tab +11\tab +15\tab 10d6 \tab (23)\tab 23\tab 20
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 21d12+105 (241)\tab 28 (-2 size, +20 natural) +27\tab +17\tab +12\tab +17\tab 12d6 \tab (25)\tab 25\tab 22
\par Mature adult H\tab 24d12+120 (276)\tab 31 (-2 size, +23 natural) +31\tab +19\tab +14\tab +19\tab 14d6 \tab (27)\tab 27\tab 23
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 27d12+162 (337)\tab 34 (-2 size, +26 natural) +35 +21\tab +15\tab +21\tab 16d6 \tab (29)\tab 29\tab 25
\par Very old\tab H\tab 30d12+180 (375)\tab 37 (-2 size, +29 natural) +39 +23\tab +17\tab +23\tab 18d6 \tab (31)\tab 31\tab 26
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 33d12+231 (445)\tab 38 (-4 size, +32 natural) +41\tab +25\tab +18\tab +25\tab 20d6\tab (33)\tab 33\tab 28
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 36d12+288 (522)\tab 41 (-4 size, +35 natural) +45 +28\tab +20\tab +28\tab 22d6\tab (36)\tab 36\tab 29
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 39d12+312 (565)\tab 44 (-4 size, +38 natural) +49 +29\tab +21\tab +29\tab 24d6 \tab (37)\tab 37\tab 31
\par }{Bronze Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Electricity immunity,\tab -
\par \tab \tab (average), swim 60 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab water breathing, speak with animals
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Polymorph self\tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Create food and water,\tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab fog cloud
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Detect thoughts\tab \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Ancient\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 24\tab 25\tab 24\tab Control water\tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 26\tab 27\tab 26\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 39\tab 10\tab 27\tab 26\tab 27\tab 26\tab Control weather\tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Animal, Law, and Water domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): Bronze dragons have two types of breath weapon, a line of lightning or a cone of repulsion gas. Creatures within the cone must succeed at a Will s
ave or be compelled to do nothing but move away from the dragon for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon. This is a mind-influencing compulsion enchantment.
\par Water Breathing (Ex): A bronze dragon can breathe underwater indefinitely and can freely use its breath weapon, spells, and other abilities while submerged.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will: speak with animals; 3/day-create food and water, polymorph self, fog cloud, detect thoughts, control water; 1/day-control weather. A bronze dragon\rquote s 
polymorph self ability works just like the spell, except that each use allows only one change, which lasts until the dragon assumes another form or reverts to its own (which does not count as a use of this ability).
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s7\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel6\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Copper Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Earth)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm desert, hill, mountains, and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 2; 
\par Very young 4; 
\par Young 6; 
\par Juvenile 8; 
\par Young adult 10; 
\par Adult 13; 
\par Mature adult 15; 
\par Old 18; 
\par Very old 19; 
\par Ancient 21; 
\par Wyrm 22; 
\par Great wyrm 24
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic good
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 6-7 HD (Tiny); 
\par Very young 9-10 HD (Small); 
\par Young 12-13 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 15-16 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young adult 18-19 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 21-22 HD (Large); 
\par Mature adult 24-25 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 27-28 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 30-31 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 33-34 HD (Huge); 
\par Wyrm 36-37 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 39+ HD (Gargantuan)
\par Copper Dragons by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab T\tab 5d12+5 (37)\tab \tab 16 (+2 size, +4 natural) +7\tab +5\tab +4\tab +5\tab 2d4 \tab (13)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab S\tab 8d12+8 (60)\tab \tab 18 (+1 size, +7 natural) +10 \tab +7\tab +6\tab +7\tab 4d4 \tab (15)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 11d12+22 (93)\tab 20 (+10 natural)\tab \tab  +13\tab +9\tab +7\tab +9\tab 6d4 \tab (17)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab M\tab 14d12+28 (119)\tab 23 (+13 natural)\tab \tab  +17\tab +11\tab +9\tab +11\tab 8d4 \tab (19)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 17d12+51 (161)\tab 25 (-1 size, +16 natural) +20\tab +13\tab +10\tab +13\tab 10d4 \tab (21)\tab 21\tab 19
\par Adult\tab \tab L\tab 20d12+80 (210)\tab 28 (-1 size, +19 natural) +25\tab +16\tab +12\tab +15\tab 12d4 \tab (24)\tab 23\tab 21
\par Mature adult H\tab 23d12+115 (264)\tab 30 (-2 size, +22 natural) +29\tab +18\tab +13\tab +17\tab 14d4 \tab (27)\tab 25\tab 23
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 26d12+130 (299)\tab 33 (-2 size, +25 natural) +33 +20\tab +15\tab +19\tab 16d4 \tab (28)\tab 27\tab 25
\par Very old\tab H\tab 29d12+174 (362)\tab 36 (-2 size, +28 natural) +37 +22\tab +16\tab +21\tab 18d4 \tab (30)\tab 29\tab 26
\par Ancient\tab H\tab 32d12+192 (400)\tab 39 (-2 size, +31 natural) +41\tab +24\tab +18\tab +23\tab 20d4 \tab (32)\tab 31\tab 28
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 35d12+245 (472)\tab 40 (-4 size, +34 natural) +43 +26\tab +19\tab +25\tab 22d4 \tab (34)\tab 33\tab 29
\par Great wyrm\tab G\tab 38d12+304 (551)\tab 43 (-4 size, +37 natural) +47 +29\tab +21\tab +27\tab 24d4 \tab (37)\tab 35\tab 31
\par }{Copper Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 11\tab 10\tab 13\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab Acid immunity,\tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (average)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab spider climb
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 12\tab 13\tab 12\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (average)
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab Stone shape\tab \tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Transmute rock to mud/ \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab mud to rock
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Ancient\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Wall of stone\tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 37\tab 10\tab 27\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Move earth\tab \tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Chaos, Earth, and Trickery domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A copper dragon has two types of breath weapon, a line of acid or a cone of slow gas. Creatures within the cone must succeed at a Fortitude save or be slowed for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon.
\par Spider Climb (Ex): The dragon can climb on stone surfaces as though using the spider climb spell.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 2/day-stone shape; 1/day-transmute rock to mud or mud to rock, wall of stone, and move earth.
\par Skills: Copper dragons have the Jump skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel7\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Gold Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Fire)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 4; 
\par Very young 6; 
\par Young 8; 
\par Juvenile 10; 
\par Young adult 13; 
\par Adult 15; 
\par Mature adult 18; 
\par Old 20; 
\par Very old 21; 
\par Ancient 23; 
\par Wyrm 24; 
\par Great wyrm 26
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always lawful good
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 9-10 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Very young 12-13 HD (Large); 
\par Young 15-16 HD (Large); 
\par Juvenile 18-19 HD (Large); 
\par Young adult 21-22 HD (Huge); 
\par Adult 24-25 HD (Huge); 
\par Mature adult 27-28 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 30-31 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Very old 33-34 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Ancient 36-37 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Wyrm 39-40 HD (Colossal); 
\par Great wyrm 42+ HD (Colossal)
\par Gold Dragons by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ----------\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab M\tab 8d12+16 (68)\tab 17 (+7 natural)\tab \tab  +11\tab +8\tab +6\tab +8\tab 2d10 \tab (16)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab L\tab 11d12+33 (104)\tab 19 (-1 size, +10 natural) +15 +10\tab +7\tab +10\tab 4d10 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab L\tab 14d12+42 (133)\tab 22 (-1 size, +13 natural) +20\tab +12\tab +9\tab +12\tab 6d10 \tab (20)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 17d12+68 (178)\tab 25 (-1 size, +16 natural) +25\tab +14\tab +10\tab +14\tab 8d10 \tab (22)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab H\tab 20d12+100 (230)\tab 27 (-2 size, +19 natural) +28\tab +17\tab +12\tab +16\tab 10d10\tab (25)\tab 24\tab 21
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 23d12+115 (264)\tab 30 (-2 size, +22 natural +32\tab +18\tab +13\tab +18\tab 12d10 (26)\tab 26\tab 23
\par Mature adult H\tab 26d12+156 (325)\tab 33 (-2 size, +25 natural) +36\tab +21\tab +15\tab +20\tab 14d10 (29)\tab 28\tab 25
\par Old\tab \tab G\tab 29d12+203 (391)\tab 34 (-4 size, +28 natural) +39 +23\tab +16\tab +23\tab 16d10 (31)\tab 31\tab 27
\par Very old\tab G\tab 32d12+256 (464)\tab 37 (-4 size, +31 natural) +43\tab +26\tab +18\tab +26\tab 18d10 (34)\tab 34\tab 28
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 35d12+315 (542)\tab 40 (-4 size, +34 natural) +47\tab +28\tab +19\tab +28\tab 20d10 (36)\tab 36\tab 30
\par Wyrm\tab \tab C\tab 38d12+380 (627)\tab 39 (-8 size, +37 natural) +47\tab +31\tab +21\tab +31\tab 22d10 (39)\tab 39\tab 31
\par Great wyrm\tab C\tab 41d12+451 (717)\tab 42 (-8 size, +40 natural) +51 +33\tab +22\tab +33\tab 24d10 (41)\tab 41\tab 33
\par }{Gold Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Fire subtype, \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab water breathing, polymorph self
\par Very young\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 21\tab 10\tab 17\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Young\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 25\tab 10\tab 17\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Juvenile\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 19\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Bless\tab \tab \tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Young adult\tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 21\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Adult\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 21\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Luck bonus\tab \tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Mature adult 60 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 23\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab (poor), swim 60 ft.
\par Old\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft..\tab 39\tab 10\tab 25\tab 24\tab 25\tab 24\tab Geas/quest, detect gems\tab 11th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft
\par Very old\tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 41\tab 10\tab 27\tab 26\tab 27\tab 26\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Ancient\tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 43\tab 10\tab 29\tab 28\tab 29\tab 28\tab Sunburst\tab \tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 45\tab 10\tab 31\tab 30\tab 31\tab 30\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par Great wyrm\tab 60 ft., fly 250 ft.\tab 47\tab 10\tab 33\tab 32\tab 33\tab 32\tab Foresight\tab \tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab (clumsy), swim 60 ft.
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Law, Luck, and Good domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A gold dragon has two forms of breath weapon, a cone of fire or a cone of weakening gas. Creatures within the latter must succeed at a Fortitude save or take 1 point of temporary Strength damage per age category of the dragon.
\par Fire Subtype (Ex): Fire immunity, double damage from cold except on a successful save.
\par Water Breathing (Ex): The dragon can breathe underwater indefinitely and can freely use its breath weapon, spells, and other abilities while submerged (the cone of fire becomes a cone of superheated steam underwater).
\par Luck Bonus (Sp): Once per day the dragon can touch one gem, usually embedded in the dragon\rquote 
s hide, and enchant it to bring good luck. As long as the dragon carries the gem, it and every good creature in a 10-foot radius per age category of the dragon receives a +1 luck bonus to all saving th
rows and similar dice rolls, as for a stone of good luck. If the dragon gives a gem to another creature, only that bearer gets the bonus. The enchantment lasts 1d3 hours plus 3 hours per age category of the dragon but ends if the gem is destroyed.
\par Detect G
ems (Sp): The dragon can use this ability three times per day. This is a divination effect similar to a detect magic spell, except that it finds only gems. The dragon can scan a 60-degree arc each round: By concentrating for 1 round it knows if there are 
any gems within the arc; 2 rounds of concentration reveal the exact number of gems; and 3 rounds reveal their exact location, type, and value.
\par Other Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-polymorph self and bless; 1/day-geas/"quest, sunburst, and foresight. A gold dragon\rquote 
s polymorph self works just like the spell, except that each use allows only one change, which lasts until the dragon assumes another form or reverts to its own (which does not count as a use of this ability).
\par Skills: Gold dragons have the Jump skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die.
\par }{\cs19\i\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s9\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel8\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Silver Dragon}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Dragon (Air)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm mountains and underground
\par Organization: 
\par Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and young adult: solitary or clutch (2-5); 
\par Adult, mature adult, old, very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family (1-2 and 2-5 offspring)
\par Challenge Ratings: 
\par Wyrmling 3; 
\par Very young 4; 
\par Young 6; 
\par Juvenile 9; 
\par Young adult 12; 
\par Adult 14; 
\par Mature adult 17; 
\par Old 19; 
\par Very old 20; 
\par Ancient 22; 
\par Wyrm 23; 
\par Great wyrm 25
\par Treasure: Double standard
\par Alignment: Always lawful good
\par Advancement: 
\par Wyrmling 8-9 HD (Small); 
\par Very young 11-12 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Young 14-15 HD (Medium-size); 
\par Juvenile 17-18 HD (Large); 
\par Young adult 20-21 HD (Large); 
\par Adult 23-24 HD (Huge); 
\par Mature adult 26-27 HD (Huge); 
\par Old 29-30 HD (Huge); 
\par Very old 32-33 HD (Huge); 
\par Ancient 35-36 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Wyrm 38-39 HD (Gargantuan); 
\par Great wyrm 41+ HD (Colossal)
\par Silver Dragons by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Attack Fort\tab Ref\tab Will\tab Breath\tab Fear
\par Age\tab \tab Size\tab Hit Dice (hp)\tab AC\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab  Save\tab Save\tab Save\tab Weapon (DC)\tab DC\tab SR
\par ---\tab \tab ----\tab -------------\tab --\tab \tab \tab \tab ------ ----\tab ----\tab ----\tab ------ ----\tab --\tab --
\par Wyrmling\tab S\tab 7d12+7 (52)\tab \tab 17 (+1 size, +6 natural) +9\tab +6\tab +5\tab +7\tab 2d8 \tab (14)\tab -\tab -
\par Very young\tab M\tab 10d12+20 (85)\tab 19 (+9 natural)\tab \tab  +12 \tab +9\tab +7\tab +9\tab 4d8 \tab (17)\tab -\tab -
\par Young\tab \tab M\tab 13d12+26 (110)\tab 22 (+12 natural)\tab \tab  +16\tab +10\tab +8\tab +11\tab 6d8 \tab (18)\tab -\tab -
\par Juvenile\tab L\tab 16d12+48 (152)\tab 24 (-1 size, +15 natural) +19\tab +13\tab +10\tab +14\tab 8d8 \tab (21)\tab -\tab -
\par Young adult\tab L\tab 19d12+76 (199)\tab 27 (-1 size, +18 natural) +24\tab +15\tab +11\tab +15\tab 10d8 \tab (23)\tab 23\tab 20
\par Adult\tab \tab H\tab 22d12+110 (253)\tab 29 (-2 size, +21 natural) +28\tab +18\tab +13\tab +18\tab 12d8 \tab (26)\tab 26\tab 22
\par Mature adult H\tab 25d12+125 (287)\tab 32 (-2 size, +24 natural) +32\tab +19\tab +14\tab +19\tab 14d8 \tab (27)\tab 27\tab 24
\par Old\tab \tab H\tab 28d12+168 (350)\tab 35 (-2 size, +27 natural) +36 +22\tab +16\tab +22\tab 16d8 \tab (30)\tab 30\tab 26
\par Very old\tab H\tab 31d12+186 (387)\tab 38 (-2 size, +30 natural) +40 +23\tab +17\tab +24\tab 18d8 \tab (31)\tab 32\tab 27
\par Ancient\tab G\tab 34d12+238 (459)\tab 39 (-4 size, +33 natural) +42\tab +26\tab +19\tab +27\tab 20d8 \tab (34)\tab 35\tab 29
\par Wyrm\tab \tab G\tab 37d12+333 (573)\tab 42 (-4 size, +36 natural) +47 +29\tab +20\tab +29\tab 22d8 \tab (36)\tab 37\tab 30
\par Great wyrm\tab C\tab 40d12+400 (660)\tab 41 (-8 size, +39 natural) +48 +32\tab +22\tab +32\tab 24d8 \tab (39)\tab 40\tab 32
\par }{Silver Dragon Abilities by Age
\par }{\f2\fs20 Age\tab \tab Speed\tab \tab \tab \tab Str\tab Dex\tab Con\tab Int\tab Wis\tab Cha\tab Special Abilities\tab Caster Level*
\par ---\tab \tab -----\tab \tab \tab \tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab ---\tab -----------------\tab ------------
\par Wyrmling\tab 40 ft., fly 100 ft.\tab 13\tab 10\tab 13\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab Cold and acid immunity,\tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab (average)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab cloudwalking, polymorph self
\par Very young\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 15\tab 10\tab 15\tab 14\tab 15\tab 14\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Young\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 17\tab 10\tab 15\tab 16\tab 17\tab 16\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1st
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Juvenile\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 19\tab 10\tab 17\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Feather fall\tab \tab 3rd
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Young adult\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 23\tab 10\tab 19\tab 18\tab 19\tab 18\tab Damage reduction 5/+1\tab 5th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Adult\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 27\tab 10\tab 21\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Fog cloud\tab \tab \tab 7th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Mature adult 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 29\tab 10\tab 21\tab 20\tab 21\tab 20\tab Damage reduction 10/+1\tab 9th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Old\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 31\tab 10\tab 23\tab 22\tab 23\tab 22\tab Control winds\tab \tab 11th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Very old\tab 40 ft., fly 150 ft.\tab 33\tab 10\tab 23\tab 24\tab 25\tab 24\tab Damage reduction 15/+2\tab 13th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (poor)
\par Ancient\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 35\tab 10\tab 25\tab 26\tab 27\tab 26\tab Control weather\tab \tab 15th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Wyrm\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 39\tab 10\tab 29\tab 28\tab 29\tab 28\tab Damage reduction 20/+3\tab 17th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par Great wyrm\tab 40 ft., fly 200 ft.\tab 43\tab 10\tab 31\tab 30\tab 31\tab 30\tab Reverse gravity\tab \tab 19th
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (clumsy)
\par }{*Can also cast cleric spells and those from the Air, Good, Law, and Sun domains as arcane spells.
\par Breath Weapon (Su): A silver dragon has two types of breath weapon, a cone of cold or a cone of paralyzing gas. Creatures within the latter must succeed at a Fortitude save or be paralyzed for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon.
\par Cloudwalking (Su): The dragon can tread on clouds or fog as though on solid ground. The ability functions continuously but can be negated or resumed at will.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day-polymorph self, fog cloud, control winds; 2/day-feather fall; 1/day-control weather and reverse gravity. A silver dragon\rquote 
s polymorph self works just like the spell, except that each use allows only one change, which lasts until the dragon assumes another form or reverts to its own (which does not count as a use of this ability).
\par Skills: Silver dragons have the Jump skill for free at 1 rank per Hit Die.
\par }}