{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Monsters (I, J & K)}{\subject SRD}
{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr11\min45}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min17}{\version6}{\edmins3}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords982}{\nofchars5598}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (I, J & K)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Invisible Stalker}{
\par Large Elemental (Air)\line Hit Dice: 8d8+16 (52 hp)\line Initiative: +8 (+4 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (perfect)\line AC: 17 (-1 size, +4 Dex, +4 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +10/+5\line Damage: Slam 2d6+6\line F
ace/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Qualities: Elemental, natural invisibility, improved tracking\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +10, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 18, Dex 19, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 11\line 
Skills: Listen +11, Move Silently +15, Search +11, Spot +13\line Feats: Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Weapon Focus (slam)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 9-12 HD (Large); 13-24 HD (Huge)
\par These creatures speak only Auran but can understand Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par An invisible stalker attacks by using the air itself as a weapon. It creates a sudden, intense vortex of wind that pounds a single target on the same plane as the creature.
\par Invisible stalkers can be killed only when on the Elemental Plane of Air. When performing tasks elsewhere, they automatically return to their home plane when they suffer sufficient damage to destroy them.
\par Elemental: Immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, and stunning. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Natural Invisibility (Su): This ability is constant, allowing the stalker to remain invisible even when attacking. This ability is inherent and not subject to the invisibility purge spell.
\par Improved Tracking (Ex): Invisible stalkers are consummate trackers and make Spot checks instead of the usual Wilderness Lore checks to trace a creature\rquote s passage.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Kobold}{
\par Small Humanoid (Reptilian)\line Hit Dice: 1/2 d8 (2 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +1 natural, +2 leather)\line Attacks: Halfspear -1 melee; or light crossbow +2 ranged\line 
Damage: Halfspear 1d6-2; or light crossbow 1d8\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., light sensitivity\line Saves: Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 6, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10\line 
Skills: Craft (trapmaking) +2, Hide +8, Listen +2, Move Silently +4, Search +2, Spot +2\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any forest and underground\line Organization: Gang (4-9), band (10-100 plus 100% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults and 1 leader of\line 
4th-6th level), warband (10-24 plus 2-4 dire weasels), tribe (40-400 plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, 1 or 2 lieutenants of 4th or 5th level, 1 leader of 6th-8th level,and 5-8 dire weasels)\line Challenge Rating: 1/6\line Treasure: Standard\line 
Alignment: Usually lawful evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par Kobolds speak Draconic with voices that sound like yapping dogs.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par They begin a fight by slinging bullets, closing only when they can see that t
heir foes have been weakened. Whenever they can, kobolds set up ambushes near trapped areas. They aim to drive enemies into the traps, where other kobolds wait to pour flaming oil over them, shoot them, or drop poisonous vermin onto them.
\par Light Sensitivity (Ex): Kobolds suffer a -1 penalty to attack rolls in bright sunlight or within the radius of a daylight spell.
\par Skills: Kobolds receive a +2 racial bonus to Craft (trapmaking), Profession (mining), and Search checks.
\par }{\cs21\b Kobold Characters}{
\par A kobold\rquote s favored class is sorcerer. Kobold clerics can choose any two of the following domains: Evil, Law, Luck, and Trickery.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Kraken}{
\par Gargantuan Magical Beast (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 20d10+180 (290 hp)\line Initiative: +4 (Improved Initiative)\line Speed: Swim 20 ft.\line AC: 20 (-4 size, +14 natural)\line Attacks: 2 tentacle rakes +28 melee, 6 arms +23 melee, _bite +23 melee\line 
Damage: Tentacle rake 2d8+12, arm 1d6+6, bite 4d6+6\line Face/Reach: 20 ft. by 40 ft./"_10 ft. (100 ft. with tentacle)\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, constrict 2d8+12 or 1d6+6\line Special Qualities: Jet, ink cloud, spell-like abilities\line 
Saves: Fort +21, Ref +12, Will +13\line Abilities: Str 34, Dex 10, Con 29, Int 21, Wis 20, Cha_10\line Skills: Concentration +19, Knowledge (geography) +10, Knowledge (nature) +10, Listen +15, Search +15, Spot +15\line 
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Expertise, Improved Critical_(tentacle), Improved Initiative, Improved Trip, Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Any aquatic\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 12\line Treasure: Triple standard\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 21-32 HD (Gargantuan); 33-60 HD (Colossal)
\par Krakens speak Common and Aquan.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Krakens strike their opponents with their barbed tentacles, then grab and crush with their arms or drag victims into their huge jaws.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the kraken must hit an opponent of up to Huge size with an arm or tentacle attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Constrict (Ex): A kraken deals automatic arm or tentacle damage with a successful grapple check against Huge or smaller creatures.
\par Jet (Ex): A kraken can jet backward once per round as a double move action, at a speed of 280 feet.
\par Ink Cloud (Ex): A kraken can emit a cloud of jet-black ink 80 feet high by 80 feet wide by 120 feet long once per minute as a free action. The cloud provi
des total concealment, which the kraken normally uses to escape a losing fight. Creatures within the cloud suffer the effects of total darkness.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day-control weather, control winds, dominate animal, and resist elements. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 9th-level druid (save DC 15 + spell level).
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Krenshar}{
\par Medium-Size Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 2d10 (11 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 40 ft.\line AC: 15 (+2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +2 melee, 2 claws +0 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6, claw 1d4\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Scare\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +1\line Abilities: Str 11, Dex 14, Con 11, Int_6, Wis 12, Cha 13\line Skills: Hide +4, Jump +4, Listen +4, Move Silently +6\line Feats: Multiattack
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest and plains\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pride (6-10)\line Challenge Rating: 1\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 3-4 HD (Medium-size); 5-8 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Krenshars use solitary scouts to drive prey into the waiting clutches of the pack. The scout appears from hiding, uses its scare ability, then chases the fleeing target to join the attack.
\par Scare (Ex or Su): As a standard action, a krenshar can pull the skin back from its head, revealing th
e musculature and bony structures of its skull. This alone is usually sufficient to scare away foes (treat as a Bluff check with a +3 bonus). Combining this scare ability with a loud screech produces an unsettling effect that works like scare cast by a 3r
d-level sorcerer (save DC 12). If the save is successful, that opponent cannot be affected again by that krenshar\rquote s scare ability for one day. The shriek does not affect other krenshars.
\par }}