{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f116\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times};}{\f117\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times};}
{\f119\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times};}{\f120\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times};}{\f121\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times};}
{\f122\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times};}{\f123\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times};}{\f132\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f133\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f135\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f137\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f138\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f139\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f342\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f340\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f341\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f343\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f344\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f345\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f346\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f347\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\*\cs20 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Body Text;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\title MonstersS (A)}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy3\hr11\min2}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min14}{\version25}{\edmins59}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords3256}{\nofchars18560}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This 
material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (A)
\par }{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\cs19\i Aboleth}{
\par Huge Aberration (Aquatic)\line Hit Dice: 8d8+40 (76 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 10 ft., swim 60 ft.\line AC: 16 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural)\line Attacks: 4 tentacles +12 melee\line Damage: Tentacle 1d6+9 and transformation\line 
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Transformation, psionics, enslave\line Special Qualities: Mucus cloud\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +3, Will +11\line Abilities: Str 26, Dex 12, Con 20, Int 15, Wis 17, Cha 17\line 
Skills: Concentration +16, Knowledge (any one) +7, Listen +16, Spot +16\line Feats: Alertness, Combat Casting, Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary, brood (2-4), or slaver brood (1d3+1 plus 7-12 skum)\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: Double standard\line Alignment: Usually lawful evil\line Advancement: 9-16 HD (Huge); 17-24 HD \-
(Gargantuan)
\par Aboleth speak their own language, as well as Undercommon and Aquan.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par An aboleth attacks by flailing with its long, slimy tentacles, though it prefers to fight from a distance using its illusion powers.
\par Transformation (Ex): A blow from an aboleth\rquote s tentacle can cause a terrible transformation. Affected creatures must succeed at a Fortitude save
 (DC 19) or begin to transform over the next 1d4+1 minutes, the skin gradually becoming a clear, slimy membrane. A transformed creature must remain moistened with cool, fresh water or suffer 1d12 points of damage every 10 minutes. A remove disease spell c
ast before the transformation is complete will restore an afflicted creature to normal. Afterward, however, only a heal or mass heal spell can reverse the change.
\par Psionics (Sp): At will: hypnotic pattern, illusory wall, mirage arcana, persistent image, programmed image, project image, and veil. These effects are as the spells cast by a 16th-level sorcerer (save DCs, where applicable, are 13 + spell level).
\par Enslave (Su): Three times a day, an aboleth can attempt to enslave any one living creature within 30 fe
et. The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 17) or be affected as though by a dominate person spell cast by a 16th-level sorcerer. An enslaved creature obeys the aboleth\rquote 
s telepathic commands (but will not fight on its behalf) until freed by remove curs
e or dispel magic, and can attempt a new Will save every 24 hours to break free. The control is also broken if the aboleth dies or travels more than one mile from its slave.
\par Mucus Cloud (Ex): An aboleth underwater surrounds itself with a viscous cloud of m
ucus roughly 1 foot thick. Any creature coming into contact with and inhaling this substance must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 19) or lose the ability to breathe air for the next 3 hours. The affected creature suffocates in 2d6 minutes if removed from 
the water. Renewed contact with the mucus cloud and failing another Fortitude save continues the effect for another 3 hours.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Achaierai}{
\par Large Outsider (Evil, Lawful)\line Hit Dice: 6d8+12 (39 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 50 ft.\line AC: 20 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +10 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +9 melee, bite +4 melee\line Damage: Claw 2d6+4, bite 4d6+2\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\line Special Attacks: Black cloud\line Special Qualities: SR 19\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +7\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 16\line 
Skills: Climb +13, Jump +13, Listen +11, Move Silently +10, Sense Motive +11, Spot +11\line Feats: Dodge, Mobility
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or flock (5-8)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: Double standard\line Alignment: Always lawful evil\line Advancement: 7-12 HD (Large); 13-18 HD (Huge)
\par Achaierai speak Infernal.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par In close combat, achaierai lash out with two of their four legs and snap with their powerful beaks. These attack modes alone would make them deadly warriors.
\par Black Cloud (Ex): Up to three times per day an achaierai can release a choking, toxic black cloud. Those other than achaierai within 10 feet instantly take 2d6 points of damage. They must also succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or b
e affected for 3 hours as though by an insanity spell cast by a 16th-level sorcerer.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Allip}{
\par Medium-Size Undead (Incorporeal)\line Hit Dice: 4d12 (26 hp)\line Initiative: +5 (+1 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: Fly 30 ft. (perfect)\line AC: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 deflection)\line Attacks: Incorporeal touch +3 melee\line 
Damage: Incorporeal touch 1d4 permanent Wisdom drain\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Babble, Wisdom drain, madness\line Special Qualities: Undead, incorporeal, +2 turn resistance\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +4\line 
Abilities: Str -, Dex 12, Con -, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha_18\line Skills: Hide +8, Intimidate +11, Intuit Direction +4, Listen +7, Search +7, Spot +7\line Feats: Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 5-12 HD (Medium-size)
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Allips are unable to cause physical harm, although they don\rquote t appear to know that. They keep flailing away at their enemies, yet they inflict no wounds.
\par Babble (Su): An 
allip constantly mutters and whines to itself, creating a hypnotic effect. All sane creatures within 60 feet of the allip must succeed at a Will save (DC 16) or be affected as though by a hypnotism spell for 2d4 rounds. This is a sonic, mind-affecting com
pulsion. Opponents who successfully save cannot be affected by the same allip\rquote s babble for one day.
\par Wisdom Drain (Su): Those whose Wisdom is reduced to 0 by the allip become helpless until at least 1 point of Wisdom is restored.
\par Madness (Su): Anyone targeting the allip with a mind-control or telepathic ability makes direct contact with its tortured mind and takes 1d4 points of temporary Wisdom damage.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Animated Object}{
\par Tiny Animated Object\tab \tab \tab \tab Small Animated Object\tab \tab \tab 
\par Tiny Construct\tab \tab \tab \tab Small Construct\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Hit Dice: 1/2 d10 (2 hp)\tab \tab \tab 1d10 (5 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Initiative: +2 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab +1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Speed:\tab 40 ft. (50 ft. legs, 60 ft. multiple \tab 30 ft. (40 ft. legs, 50 ft. multiple\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {legs, 80 ft. wheels)\tab \tab legs, 70 ft. wheels)\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {AC: 14 (+2 size, +2 Dex)\tab \tab \tab 14 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +2 natural)
\par Attacks: Slam +1 melee\tab \tab \tab Slam +1 melee\tab \tab 
\par Damage: Slam 1d3-1\tab \tab \tab \tab Slam 1d4\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Face/Reach: 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft./0 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 
\par Special Attacks: See text\tab \tab \tab See text\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Special Qualities: See text\tab \tab \tab See text\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Saves: \tab Fort +0, Ref +2, Will -5\tab \tab Fort +0, Ref +1, Will -5\tab \tab 
\par Abilities: Str 8, Dex 14, Con -,\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 12, Con -,\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Medium-Size Animated Object\tab \tab Large Animated Object
\par Medium-Size Construct\tab \tab \tab Large Construct
\par Hit Dice: 2d10 (11 hp)\tab \tab \tab 4d10 (22 hp)
\par Initiative: +0\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +0
\par Speed:\tab 30 ft. (40 ft. legs, 50 ft. multiple \tab 20 ft. (30 ft. legs, 40 ft. multiple
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {legs, 70 ft. wheels)\tab \tab legs, 60 ft. wheels)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {AC: 14 (+4 natural)\tab \tab \tab \tab 14 (-1 size, +5 natural)
\par Attacks: Slam +2 melee\tab \tab \tab Slam +5 melee
\par Damage: Slam 1d6+1\tab \tab \tab \tab Slam 1d8+4
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft. (long)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft. (tall)
\par Special Attacks: See text\tab \tab \tab See text
\par Special Qualities: See text\tab \tab \tab See text
\par Saves: Fort +0, Ref +0, Will \endash 5\tab \tab Fort +1, Ref +1, Will -4
\par Abilities: Str 12, Dex 10, Con -,\tab \tab Str 16, Dex 10, Con -,\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 { Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Huge Animated Object\tab \tab \tab Gargantuan Animated Object
\par Huge Construct\tab \tab \tab \tab Gargantuan Construct
\par Hit Dice: 8d10 (44 hp)\tab \tab \tab 16d10 (88 hp)
\par Initiative: -1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab -2 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab 20 ft. (30 ft. legs, 40 ft. multiple\tab 10 ft. (20 ft. legs, 30 ft. multiple
\par \tab legs, 60 ft. wheels)\tab \tab \tab legs, 50 ft. wheels)
\par AC: 13 (-2 size, -1 Dex, +6 natural)\tab \tab 12 (-4 size, -2 Dex, +8 natural)
\par Attacks: Slam +9 melee\tab \tab \tab Slam +15 melee
\par Damage: Slam 2d6+7\tab \tab \tab \tab Slam 2d8+10
\par Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft. (long)\tab 20 ft. by 40 ft./10 ft. (long)
\par \tab \tab 10 ft. by 10 ft./15 ft. (tall)\tab 20 ft. by 20 ft./20 ft. (tall)
\par Special Attacks: See text\tab \tab \tab See text
\par Special Qualities:See text\tab \tab \tab See text
\par Saves: Fort +2, Ref +1, Will -3\tab \tab Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +0
\par Abilities: Str 20, Dex 8, Con -,\tab \tab Str 24, Dex 6, Con -,
\par \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab Colossal Animated Object
\par \tab \tab \tab Colossal Construct
\par Hit Dice:\tab \tab 32d10 (176 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab \tab -3 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab \tab \tab 10 ft. (20 ft. legs, 30 ft. multiple
\par \tab \tab \tab legs, 50 ft. wheels)
\par AC:\tab \tab \tab 11 (-8 size, -3 Dex, +12 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab \tab Slam +25 melee
\par Damage:\tab \tab \tab Slam 4d6+13
\par Face/Reach:\tab \tab 40 ft. by 80 ft./15 ft. (long)
\par \tab \tab \tab 40 ft. by 40 ft./25 ft. (tall)
\par Special Attacks:\tab See text
\par Special Qualities:\tab See text
\par Saves:\tab \tab \tab Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +5
\par Abilities:\tab \tab Str 28, Dex 4, Con -,
\par \tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab Any land and underground
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {Organization: \tab Tiny: Group (4); Small: Pair; Medium-size, Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and Colossal: Solitary
\par Challenge Rating:\tab Tiny 1/2; Small 1; Medium-size 2; Large 3; Huge 5; Gargantuan 7; Colossal 10
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Treasure: None
\par Alignment: Always neutral
\par Advancement:\tab -
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Construct: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, disease, and similar effects. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par An animated object can have one or more of the following special abilities, depending on its form.
\par Blind (Ex): A sheetlike animated object such as a carpet or tapestry can grapple an opponent up to three sizes larger. The object makes a normal grapple check. If it gets a hold, it wraps itself around the opponent\rquote s head, blindi
ng that creature until removed. The blinded creature cannot make Spot, Search, or Track checks and suffers a -6 circumstance penalty to other checks related to perception, such as Listen.
\par Constrict (Ex): A flexible animated object such as a rope, vine, or 
rug deals automatic slam damage with a successful grapple check against creatures up to one size larger than itself. An object of at least Large size can make constrict attacks against multiple creatures at once, if they all are at least two sizes smaller
 than the object and fit under it.
\par Trample (Ex): An animated object of at least Large size and with a hardness of at least 10 can trample creatures two or more sizes smaller for the object\rquote s slam damage. Opponents who do not make attacks of opportunity agai
nst the object can attempt Reflex saves (DC 10 + 1/2 object\rquote s HD) to halve the damage.
\par Hardness (Ex): An animated object has the same hardness it had before it was animated.
\par Improved Speed (Ex): The base speeds given in the statistics block assume that ani
mated objects lurch, rock, or slither along. Objects with two legs (statues, ladders) or a similar shape that allows faster movement have a speed bonus of 10 feet. Objects with multiple legs (tables, chairs) have a speed bonus of 20 feet. Wheeled objects 
g
ain a speed bonus of 40 feet. Objects might have additional modes of movement. A wooden object can float and has a swim speed equal to half its land speed. A rope or similar sinuous object has a climb speed equal to half its land speed. A sheetlike object
 can fly (clumsy maneuverability) at half its normal speed.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Ankheg}{
\par Large Beast\line Hit Dice: 3d10+9 (25 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 30 ft., burrow 20 ft.\line AC: 18 (-1 size, +9 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +6 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d6+7\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\line Spe
cial Attacks: Improved grab, acid, spit acid\line Special Qualities: Tremorsense\line Saves: Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 21, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 1, Wis 13, Cha_6\line Skills: Listen +4
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm plains, forest, and underground\line Organization: Solitary or cluster (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 4 HD (Large); 5-9 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par An ankheg usually lies 5 to 10 feet below the surface until its antennae detect the approach of prey. It then burrows up to attack. (Treat this as a charge.)
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the ankheg must hit with its bite attack.  If the ankheg is damaged after grabbing its prey, it retreats backward down its tunnel at burrowing speed, dragging the victim with it.
\par Acid (Ex): Acidic enzymes drip from an ankheg\rquote s mouth each round it maintains a hold. It automatically deals 1d4 points of acid damage each round in addition to bite damage.
\par Spit Acid (Ex): Stream of acid 5 feet high, 5 feet wide, and 30 feet long, once every 6 hours; damage 4d4, Reflex half DC 14. One such attack depletes the ankheg\rquote 
s acid supply for 6 hours. It cannot spit acid or deal acid damage during this time. Ankhegs do not use this ability unless they are desperate or frustrated. They most
 often spit acid when reduced to fewer than half their hit points or when they have not successfully grabbed an opponent.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): Ankhegs can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Aranea}{
\par Medium-Size Shapechanger\line Hit Dice: 3d8+6 (19 hp)\line Initiative: +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 50 ft., climb 25 ft.\line AC: 13 (+2 Dex, +1 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +4 melee; or web +4 ranged\line Damage: Bite 1d6 and poison
\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Spells, web, poison\line Special Qualities: Alternate form\line Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 11, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 14\line 
Skills: Climb +14, Concentration +8, Craft (weaving) +8, Escape Artist +8, Jump +6, Listen +3, Spot +3\line Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Weapon Finesse (bite)
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest and underground\line Organization: Solitary or colony (3-6)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: Standard coins; double goods; standard items\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line 
Advancement: By character class
\par Araneas speak Common and Sylvan.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Araneas avoid physical combat and use their webs and spells when they can. In a battle, they try to immobilize or distract the most aggressive opponents first. Araneas often subdue opponents for ransom.
\par Spells: Araneas cast spells as 3rd-level sorcerers (save DC 12 + spell level). They prefer illusions and charms but avoid fire spells.
\par Web (Ex): In spider or hybrid form (see Alternate Form, below), an aranea can cast a web up to six times per day. This is similar to an attack with a net but has a maximum ra
nge of 50 feet, with a range increment of 10 feet, and is effective against targets of up to Large size. The web anchors the target in place, allowing no movement. An entangled creature can escape with a successful Escape Artist check (DC 20) or burst the
 web with a successful Strength check (DC 26). The web has 6 hit points and takes double damage from fire.
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 13); initial damage 1d6 temporary Strength, secondary damage 2d6 temporary Strength.
\par Alternate Form (Su): An aranea\rquote 
s natural form is that of a Medium-sized monstrous spider. It can assume two other forms. The first is a Small or Medium-size humanoid (the exact form is fixed at birth). The second form is a Medium-size, spider-humanoid hybrid. Changing form is a stan
dard action. In humanoid form, the aranea gains all the abilities of the form (for example, an aranea in dwarf form has dwarven racial traits). The aranea keeps its ability scores and can cast spells, but it cannot use webs or poison in humanoid form. In 
hybrid form, an aranea looks like a humanoid at first glance, but a successful Spot check (DC 18) reveals the creature\rquote 
s fangs and spinnerets. The aranea can use weapons and webs in this form. An aranea remains in one form until it chooses to assume a new o
ne. A change in form cannot be dispelled, nor does the aranea revert to its natural form when killed. A true seeing spell, however, reveals its natural form if it is in humanoid or hybrid form.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Arrowhawk
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Juvenile\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Adult\tab 
\par Small Outsider (Air)\tab \tab \tab \tab Medium-Size Outsider (Air)
\par Hit Dice: 3d8+3 (16 hp)\tab \tab \tab 7d8+7 (38 hp)\tab \tab \tab 
\par Initiative: +5 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab +5 (Dex)\tab 
\par Speed: \tab Fly 60 ft. (perfect)\tab \tab \tab Fly 60 ft. (perfect)\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {AC: 20 (+1 size, +5 Dex, +4 natural)\tab \tab 21 (+5 Dex, +6 natural)\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Attacks: Electricity ray +9 ranged touch;\tab Electricity ray +12 ranged touch; \tab \tab \tab or bite +9 melee\tab \tab \tab or bite +12 melee 
\par Damage: Electricity ray 2d6; or bite 1d6+1\tab Electricity ray 2d8; or bite 1d8+2
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab 
\par Special Attacks: Electricity ray \tab \tab Electricity ray\tab \tab 
\par Special Qualities: Immunities, fire and cold\tab Immunities, fire and cold\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab resistance 20\tab \tab \tab resistance 20\tab \tab \tab 
\par Saves: Fort +4, Ref +8, Will +4\tab \tab Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +6\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Abilities: Str 12, Dex 21, Con 12,\tab \tab Str 14, Dex 21, Con 12,\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13\tab \tab Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13\tab \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Skills:\tab Intuit Direction +2, Listen +7,\tab Escape Artist +15, Intuit\tab \tab \tab \tab Search +7, Sense Motive +7,\tab \tab Direction +7, Listen +11,\tab \tab \tab 
Spot +7, Search +10\tab \tab \tab Sense Motive +11, Spot +11
\par Feats:\tab Weapon Finesse (bite)\tab \tab \tab Dodge, Weapon Finesse (bite)\tab 
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\tab Any land and underground
\par Organization: Solitary or clutch (2-4)\tab \tab Solitary or clutch (2-4)\tab \tab 
\par Challenge Rating: 3\tab \tab \tab \tab 5\tab 
\par Treasure:\tab None\tab \tab \tab \tab None\tab \tab \tab \tab 
\par Alignment:\tab Always neutral\tab \tab Always neutral\tab \tab 
\par Advancement:\tab 4-6 HD (Small)\tab \tab 8-14 HD (Medium-size)\tab \tab \tab 
\par 
\par Elder
\par Large Outsider (Air)
\par Hit Dice: 15d8+45 (112 hp)
\par Initiative: +5 (Dex)
\par Speed: \tab Fly 60 ft. (perfect)
\par }\pard \ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {AC: 22 (-1 size, +5 Dex, +8 natural)\tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Attacks: Electricity ray +19 ranged touch; or bite +20 melee
\par Damage: Electricity ray 2d8; or bite 2d6+9
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks: Electricity ray
\par Special Qualities: Immunities, fire and cold resistance 20
\par Saves: Fort +12, Ref +14, Will +10
\par Abilities: Str 22, Dex 21, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13
\par Skills:\tab Escape Artist +23, Intuit Direction +16, Knowledge (Plane of Air) +15, Listen +19, Search +18, Sense Motive +19, Spot +19
\par }\pard \ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Feats: Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Weapon Finesse (bite)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground
\par Organization:  Solitary or clutch (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating: 8
\par Treasure:\tab None
\par Alignment:\tab Always neutral
\par Advancement: 16-24 HD (Large); 25-32HD (Gargantuan)
\par 
\par Arrowhawks speak Auran, but they are not talkative \-creatures.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Electricity Ray (Su): An arrowhawk can fire this ray once a round, with a range of 45 feet.
\par Immunities (Ex): Arrowhawks have acid, electricity, and poison immunity.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Assassin Vine}{
\par Large Plant\line Hit Dice: 4d8+12 (30 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 0 ft.\line AC: 15 (-1 size, +6 natural)\line Attacks: Slam +7 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d6+7\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft. (20 ft. with vine)\line 
Special Attack: Entangle, improved grab, constrict 1d6+7\line Special Qualities: Camouflage, electricity immunity,\line cold and fire resistance 20, blindsight\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +1, Will +2\line 
Abilities: Str 20, Dex 10, Con 16, Int -, Wis 13, Cha 9
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest and underground\line Organization: Solitary or patch (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50% items\line Alignment: Always neutral\line 
Advancement: 5-16 HD (Huge); 17-32 HD (Gargantuan); 33+ HD (Colossal)
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Plant: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing.  Not subject to critical hits.
\par Assassin vines use simple tactics: They lie still until prey comes within reach, then attack. They use their entangle ability both to catch prey and to deter counterattacks.
\par Entangle (Su): An assassin vine can animate plants within 30 feet of itself as a free action. The effect l
asts until the vine dies or decides to end it (also a free action). The ability is otherwise similar to entangle as cast by a 4th-level druid (save DC 13).
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the assassin vine must hit with its slam attack.
\par Constrict (Ex): An assassin vine deals 1d6+7 points of damage with a successful grapple check against Medium-size or smaller creatures.
\par Blindsight (Ex): Assassin vines have no visual organs but can ascertain all foes within 30 feet using sound, scent, and vibration.
\par Camouflage (Ex): Since an assassin vine looks like a normal plant when at rest, it takes a successful Spot check (DC 20) to notice it before it attacks. Anyone with Wilderness Lore or Knowledge (nature) can use those skills instead of Spot to notice the p
lant. Dwarves can use stonecunning to notice the subterranean version.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Athach}{
\par Huge Aberration\line Hit Dice: 14d8+70 (133 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 50 ft.\line AC: 20 (-2 size, +1 Dex, +3 hide, +8 natural)\line Attacks: Huge club +12/+7 melee, 2 Huge clubs +12 mel
ee, bite +14 melee; or rock +5/+0 ranged, 2 rocks +5 ranged\line Damage: Huge club 2d6+8, 2 Huge clubs 2d6+4, bite 2d8+4 and poison; or rock 2d6+8, 2 rocks 2d6\line Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 10 ft./15 ft.\line Special Attacks: Poison\line 
Saves: Fort +9, Ref +5, Will +10\line Abilities: Str 27, Dex 12, Con 21, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 6\line Skills: Climb +16, Jump +16, Listen +7, Spot +7\line Feats: Multiattack, Multidexterity, Multiweapon Fighting
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm hill, mountains, and underground\line Organization: Solitary, gang (2-4), or tribe (7-12)\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: 1/2 coins; double goods; standard items\line Alignment: Often chaotic evil\line 
Advancement: 15-28 HD (Huge)
\par Athachs speak a crude dialect of Giant.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Athachs charge into melee combat unless their opponents are ou
t of reach, in which case they throw rocks. They sometimes try to overrun armored opponents to reach unarmored opponents in back ranks. With their first few melee attacks, athachs tend to flail about indiscriminately. After a few rounds, they concentrate 
on foes that have been hitting them most often and use their bites on whoever has dealt them the most damage.
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 22); initial damage 1d6_temporary Strength, secondary damage 2d6 temporary Strength.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Azer}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Fire, Lawful)\line Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 19 (+1 Dex, +6 natural, +2 large shield)\line Attacks: Warhammer +3 melee; or halfspear +3 ranged\line 
Damage: Warhammer 1d8+1 and 1 fire; or halfspear 1d6+1 and 1 fire\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Heat\line Special Qualities: SR 13, fire subtype\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +4\line 
Abilities: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 13, Int_12, Wis 12, Cha 9\line Skills: Climb +2, Craft (any one) +6, Hide -1, Listen +4, Search +4, Spot_+5\line Feats: Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, team (2-4), squad (11-20 plus 2 3rd-level sergeants and 1 leader of 3rd-6th level), or clan (30-100 plus 50% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, 5 5th-level 
lieutenants, and 3 7th-level captains)\line Challenge Rating: 2\line Treasure: Standard coins; double goods (nonflammables only); standard items (nonflammables only)\line Alignment: Always lawful neutral\line Advancement: By character class
\par Azers speak Ignan and Common.
\par }{\cs20\b Combat}{
\par Azers use broad-headed spears or well-crafted hammers in combat. When unarmed, they attempt to grapple foes. They wear no armor, for their tough skin provides ample protection.
\par Heat (Ex): Azers\rquote  bodies are intensely hot, so their unarmed attacks deal additional fire damage. Their metallic weap\-ons also conduct this heat.
\par }}