{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f52\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}{\f53\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f58\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}{\f262\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f260\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f263\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f264\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f265\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f266\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f267\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Body Text;}{\*
\cs21 \additive \b \sbasedon10 Strong;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1168074350
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Monsters (N, O & P)}{\subject SRD}
{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy11\hr13\min35}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy13\hr9\min16}{\version24}{\edmins37}{\nofpages18}{\nofwords5908}{\nofchars-32766}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par 
\par MONSTERS (N, O & P)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par }{\cs19\i Naga}{
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0 Water Naga\tab \tab \tab Spirit Naga\tab \tab 
\tab Dark Naga
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Large Aberration (Aquatic)\tab Large Aberration\tab \tab \tab Large Aberration
\par Hit Dice: 7d8+28 (59 hp)\tab \tab 9d8+36 (76 hp)\tab \tab \tab 9d8+18 (58 hp)
\par Initiative: +1 (Dex)\tab \tab +1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab +2 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab 30 ft., swim 50 ft.\tab \tab 40 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 40 ft.
\par AC: 15 (-1 size, +1 Dex,\tab \tab 16 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +6 natural)\tab 14 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural)
\par \tab +5 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  Bite +7 melee\tab \tab Bite +9 melee\tab \tab \tab Sting +7 melee, bite +2 melee
\par Damage: Bite 2d6+4 and poison\tab Bite 2d6+6 and poison\tab \tab Sting 2d4+2 and poison, bite 1d4+1
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft. (coiled)/10 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft. (coiled)/10 ft.
\par \tab (coiled)/10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Poison, spells\tab Poison, charming gaze, spells\tab Poison, detect thoughts, spells
\par Special Qualities:\tab  -\tab \tab -\tab \tab \tab \tab Poison immunity, guarded
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab thoughts, charm resistance
\par Saves: Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +8\tab Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +9\tab \tab Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +8
\par Abilities: Str 16, Dex 13, Con 18,\tab Str 18, Dex 13, Con 18,\tab \tab Str 14, Dex 15, Con 14,
\par \tab Int 10, Wis 17, Cha 15\tab Int 12, Wis 17, Cha 17\tab \tab Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 17
\par Skills: Concentration +12, Listen\tab Concentration +13, Listen +15,\tab Bluff +9, Concentration +13,
\par +10, Spellcraft +8, Spot +10\tab Spellcraft +10, Spot +15\tab \tab Listen +11, Sense Motive +8,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Spellcraft +12, Spot +11
\par Feats: Lightning Reflexes\tab \tab Alertness, Lightning Reflexes\tab Alertness, Combat Casting,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Dodge, Lightning Reflexes
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and\tab Temperate and warm land and\tab Temperate and warm land and
\par warm aquatic and underground\tab underground\tab \tab \tab underground
\par Organization: Solitary or nest (2-4)\tab Solitary or nest (2-4)\tab \tab Solitary or nest (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating: 7\tab \tab 9\tab \tab \tab \tab 8
\par Treasure:  Standard\tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab \tab Standard
\par Alignment: Usually neutral\tab Usually chaotic evil\tab \tab Usually lawful evil
\par Advancement: 8-10 HD (Large);\tab 10-13 HD (Large);\tab \tab 10-13 HD (Large); 
\par 11-21 HD (Huge)\tab \tab \tab 14-27 HD (Huge)\tab \tab \tab 14-27 HD (Huge)
\par 
\par Guardian Naga
\par Large Aberration
\par Hit Dice: 11d8+44 (93 hp)
\par Initiative: +2 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab 40 ft.
\par AC:\tab 18 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +7 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab  Bite +12 melee
\par Damage: Bite 2d6+7 and poison
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft. (coiled)/10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Poison, spit, spells
\par Saves:\tab  Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +11
\par Abilities:  Str 21, Dex 14, Con 19,
\par \tab Int 16, Wis 19, Cha 18
\par Skills:\tab Bluff +12, Concentration +15, Listen +13, 
\par \tab Sense Motive +13, Spellcraft +11, Spot +13
\par Feats:\tab Alertness, Combat Casting, Dodge, Lightning Reflexes, Spell Focus (any one school)
\par Climate/Terrain: \tab Temperate and warm land and underground
\par Organization: \tab Solitary or nest (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating: 10
\par Treasure: \tab Standard
\par Alignment: \tab Usually lawful good
\par Advancement:\tab 12-16 HD (Large); 17-33 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs19\i Water Naga}{
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 17); initial and secondary damage 1d8 temporary Constitution.
\par Spells: Water nagas cast spells as 7th-level sorcerers but never use fire spells.
\par }{\cs19\i Spirit Naga}{
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 18); initial and secondary damage 1d8 temporary Constitution.
\par Charming Gaze (Su): As charm person, 30 feet, Will save (DC 17).
\par Spells: Spirit nagas cast spells as 7th-level sorcerers, and can also cast cleric spells and spells from the domains of Chaos and Evil as arcane spells.
\par }{\cs19\i Dark Naga}{
\par Detect Thoughts (Su): A dark naga can continuously detect thoughts as the spell cast by a 9th-level sorcerer (DC 15). This ability is always active.
\par Poison (Ex): Sting, Fortitude save (DC 16) or lapse into a nightmare-haunted sleep for 2d4 minutes.
\par Guarded Thoughts (Ex): Dark nagas are immune to any form of mind reading.
\par Charm Resistance: Dark nagas receive a +2 racial bonus to saving throws against all charm effects (not included in the statistics block).
\par Spells: Dark nagas cast spells as 7th-level sorcerers.
\par }{\cs19\i Guardian Naga}{
\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 19); initial and secondary damage 2d8 temporary Constitution.
\par Spit (Ex): A guardian naga can spit its venom up to 30 feet as a standard action. The attack ignores armor and has no range increment. Opponents hit by this attack must attempt saves against the naga\rquote s poison, as above.
\par Spells: Guardian nagas cast spells as 9th-level sorcerers, and can also cast cleric spells and spells from the Good and Law domains as arcane spells.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Night Hag}{
\par Medium-Size Outsider (Evil)\line Hit Dice: 8d8+8 (44 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 20 (+1 Dex, +9 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +12 melee\line Damage: Bite 2d6+6 and disease\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities, dream \-haunting\line Special Qualities: Immunities, SR 25, damage reduction 20/+3\line Saves: Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +10\line Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 12, Int 15, Wis_15, Cha 12\line 
Skills: Bluff +11, Concentration +12, Intimidate +11, Listen +14, Ride +11, Sense Motive +12, Spellcraft +13, Spot +14\line Feats: Alertness, Combat Casting, Mounted Combat
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and \-underground\line Organization: Solitary, mounted (1, on nightmare), or covey (3, on nightmares)\line Challenge Rating: 9\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always \-neutral evil\line Advancement: 9-16 HD (Medium-size)

\par Night hags speak Infernal, Abyssal, and Celestial.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Disease (Ex): Demon fever [bite, Fortitude save (DC 18), incubation period 1 day; damage 1d6 temporary Constitution.] Each day thereafter, on a failed save, the creature must immediately succeed at another Fortitude save or suffer 1 point o
f permanent Constitution drain.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will - detect chaos, detect evil, detect good, detect law, detect magic, magic missile, polymorph self, ray of enfeeblement, and sleep. These abilities are as the spells cast by an 8th-level sorcerer
 (save DC 11 + spell level). A night hag can use etherealness at will as a 16th-level sorcerer so long as it possesses its heartstone (see below).
\par Dream Haunting (Su): Night hags can visit the dreams of chaotic or evil individuals by using a special periapt known as a heartstone to become ethereal, then hovering over the creature. Once the hag invades someone\rquote s dreams, it rides on the victim
\rquote s back until dawn. The sleeper suffers from tormenting dreams and suffers 1 point of permanent Constitution drain upo
n awakening. A sleeper reduced to a Constitution score of 0 dies. Only another ethereal being can stop these nocturnal intrusions, by confronting and defeating the night hag.
\par Immunities (Ex): Night hags are immune to fire and cold, and to charm, sleep, and fear effects.
\par }{\cs21\b Heartstone}{
\par All night hags carry this periapt, which instantly cures any disease contracted by the holder. In addition, a heartstone imparts a +2 resistance bonus to all saving throws. A night hag that loses this charm can no longer use ether
ealness until it can manufacture another (which takes one month). Good-aligned creatures can also benefit from the heartstone\rquote s powers, but the periapt shatters after ten uses and does not bestow etherealness.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs19\i Nightshade}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Nightwing\tab \tab \tab Nightwalker\tab \tab \tab Nightcrawler
\par Huge Undead\tab \tab \tab Huge Undead\tab \tab \tab Gargantuan Undead
\par Hit Dice: 17d12 (110 hp)\tab \tab 21d12 (136 hp)\tab \tab \tab 25d12 (162 hp)
\par Initiative: +8 (+4 Dex,\tab \tab +6 (+2 Dex,\tab \tab \tab +4 (Improved Initiative)
\par +4 Improved Initiative)\tab \tab +4 Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab 20 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)\tab 40 ft., fly 20 ft. (poor)\tab \tab 30 ft., burrow 60 ft.
\par AC: 28 (-2 size, +4 Dex,\tab \tab 26 (-2 size, +2 Dex, +16 natural)\tab 28 (-4 size, +22 natural)
\par \tab +16 natural)
\par Attacks:\tab Bite +15 melee\tab \tab 2 slams +20 melee\tab \tab Bite +25 melee, sting +20 melee
\par Damage: Bite 2d6+13\tab \tab Slam 2d6+12\tab \tab \tab Bite 4d6+17, sting 2d8+8 and 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 poison
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Face/Reach: 20 ft. by 10 ft./10 ft.\tab 10 ft. by 10 ft./15 ft.\tab \tab 30 ft. by 30 ft. (coiled)/10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Nightshade\tab Nightshade abilities,\tab \tab Nightshade abilities, improved 
\par abilities, magic drain\tab \tab crush item, evil gaze\tab \tab grab, swallow whole, energy drain, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\fs20 poison
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Special Qualities:\tab Undead,\tab \tab Undead, nightshade abilities\tab Undead, nightshade abilities,
\par \tab nightshade abilities\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab tremorsense
\par Saves:\tab Fort +5, Ref +9, Will +15\tab Fort +7, Ref +9, Will +17\tab \tab Fort +8, Ref +8, Will +21
\par Abilities: Str 29, Dex 18, Con -,\tab Str 35, Dex 14, Con -,\tab \tab Str 45, Dex 10, Con -,
\par \tab Int 20, Wis 20, Cha 18\tab Int 20, Wis 20, Cha 18\tab \tab Int 20, Wis 20, Cha 18
\par Skills: Concentration +16,\tab \tab Concentration +19, Hide +12*,\tab Concentration +18, Intuit Direction
\par Intuit Direction +19, Listen +22, \tab Listen +22, Move Silently +19,\tab +7, Listen +22, Move Silently +20,
\par Move Silently +20, Spellcraft +19,\tab Spellcraft +19, Spot +22\tab \tab Spellcraft +17, Spot +22
\par Spot +22
\par Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight,\tab Alertness, Blind-Fight, Cleave,\tab Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat
\par Combat Casting, Combat Reflexes,\tab Combat Casting, Combat Reflexes,\tab Casting, Improved Critical (bite),
\par Dodge, Flyby Attack, Improved\tab Great Cleave, Improved Critical\tab Improved Critical (sting), 
\par Critical (bite), Improved Initiative, \tab (slam), Improved Initiative,\tab Improved Initiative, Iron Will
\par Power Attack\tab \tab \tab Power Attack, Sunder\tab \tab Power Attack
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab Any land and\tab Any land and underground\tab \tab Any land and underground
\par \tab \tab underground
\par Organization: Solitary, pair, or\tab Solitary, pair, or gang (2-4)\tab Solitary or pair
\par \tab \tab flock (3-6)
\par Challenge Rating: 14\tab \tab 16\tab \tab \tab \tab 18
\par Treasure:  Standard\tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab \tab Standard
\par Alignment: Always chaotic evil\tab Always chaotic evil\tab \tab Always chaotic evil
\par Advancement: 18-25 HD (Huge); \tab 22-31 HD (Huge);\tab \tab 26-75 HD (Colossal)
\par \tab 26-51 HD (Gargantuan)\tab 32-63 HD (Gargantuan)
\par }{\cs19\i Nightshades}{
\par Undead: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and disease. Not subject to critical hits, subdual damage, ability damage, energy drain, or death from massive damage.
\par Chill Aura (Su): All nightshades radiate a 60-foot-radius aura of utter cold. While this aura does not damage living things, it spoils any food and drink it touches. In addition, it ruins holy water and magic potions, oils, and ointment
s unless the items succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 22). Items that successfully save can\-not be affected again by the same nightshade\rquote 
s aura for one day. This bone-numbing cold is so distinctive that anyone exposed to it once instantly recognizes it in the future, so it is difficult for a nightshade to surprise someone who has previously encountered such a beast.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will-cause disease, charm person, cloudkill, confusion, darkness, dispel magic, haste, hold person, and invisibility; onc
e per night: finger of death. These abilities are as the spells cast by a sorcerer whose level equals the nightshade\rquote s HD total (save DC 14 + spell level).
\par Summon Undead (Su): A nightshade can summon undead creatures once every 4 hours: 2-5 shadows, 1-2 wraiths, 1 allip, or 1 spectre. The undead arrive in 1d10 rounds and serve for 1 hour or until released.
\par Aversion to Daylight (Ex): Nightshades are creatures of utter darkness. While they loathe all light, if exposed to natural daylight (not merely a daylight spell), they suffer a -4 morale penalty to all attack rolls.
\par Cold Immunity (Ex): Nightshades suffer no damage from cold.
\par Resistances (Ex): Nightshades have acid, fire, and electricity resistance 50.
\par Spell Immunity (Su): Nightshades ignore the effects of spells and spell-like abilities of 6th level or lower, just as if the spellcaster had failed to overcome spell resistance.
\par Detect Magic (Su): A nightshade can continuously detect magic as the spell cast by a 20th-level sorcerer. It can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
\par See Invisibility (Su): A nightshade can continuously see invisibility as the spell cast by a 20th-level sorcerer. It can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
\par Telepathy (Su): Nightshades can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par Damage Reduction (Su): All nightshades have damage reduction 25/+3.
\par }{\cs19\i Nightwing}{
\par Magic Drain (Su): A night\-wing can weaken magic armor, weapons, and shields by making a successful touch attack. The ta
rget item must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 20) or lose one "plus" (for example, a +2 sword becomes a +1 sword). An item that is completely drained becomes normal in all respects and loses any other powers (such as flame tongue) as well. Casting dispel
 evil upon the item reverses the effects of the magic drain, provided this occurs within a number of days after the attack equal to the caster\rquote s level.
\par }{\cs19\i Nightwalker}{
\par Crush Item (Su): A nightwalker can destroy any weapon or item of Large size or smaller (even 
magic ones, but not artifacts) by picking it up and crushing it between its hands. This is a standard action. The nightshade must make a successful disarm attack to grab an item held by an opponent.
\par Evil Gaze (Su): Curse, 30 feet, Will save (DC 24). Cursed opponents suffer a -4 morale penalty to all attack rolls, checks, and saving throws. Dispel evil or remove curse eliminates the effect.
\par Skills: *When hiding in a dark area, a nightwalker receives a +8 racial bonus to Hide checks.
\par }{\cs19\i Nightcrawler}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the nightcrawler must hit with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can try to swallow the opponent.
\par Swallow Whole (Ex): A nightcrawler can try to swallow a grabbed opponent of Huge or smaller size by making a successful grap
ple check. Once inside, the opponent takes 2d8+12 points of crushing damage plus 12 points of acid damage per round from the nightcrawler\rquote s gizzard, and is subject to the creature\rquote 
s energy drain.  A swallowed creature can cut its way out by using a light s
lashing weapon to deal 35 points of damage to the gizzard (AC 24). Once the creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must cut its own way out. The nightcrawler\rquote 
s interior can hold one Huge, four Large, sixteen Medium-size, or sixty-four Small or smaller opponents.
\par Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures inside a nightcrawler\rquote s gizzard receive one negative level each round. The Fortitude save to remove a negative level has a DC of 24.
\par Poison (Ex): Sting, Fortitude save (DC 22); initial and secondary damage 2d6 temporary Strength.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): A nightcrawler can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Nightmare}{
\par Large Outsider (Evil)\line Hit Dice: 6d8+18 (45 hp)\line Initiative: +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 40 ft., fly 90 ft. (good)\line AC: 24 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +13_natural)\line Attacks: 2 hooves +9 melee, bite +4 melee\line 
Damage: Hoof 1d8+4 and 1d4 fire, bite 1d8+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Flaming hooves, smoke\line Special Qualities: Astral projection, etherealness\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +7, Will_+6\line 
Abilities: Str 18, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 12\line Skills: Intuit Direction +10, Listen +12, Move Silently +11, Search +10, Sense Motive +10, Spot +12\line Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral evil\line Advancement: 7-10 HD (Large); 11-18 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Nightmares do battle by biting with their viperish fangs and kicking with their powerful legs. A nightmare can fight while mounted, but the rider cannot also fight unless he or she succeeds at a Ride check.
\par Flaming Hooves (Su): A blow from a nightmare\rquote s hooves sets combustible materials alight.
\par Smoke (Su): During the excitement of battle, a nightmare often snorts and neighs with rage. This fills a 15-foot cone with a hot, sulfurous smoke that chokes and blinds opponents. Anyone in the cone must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 16) or 
suffer a -2 morale penalty to all attack and damage rolls until 1d6 minutes after they leave the cone. The nightmare gains one-half concealment against creatures 5 feet away and total concealment against creatures 10 feet away. The smoke does not obscure 
the nightmare\rquote s vision at all. The nightmare can suppress the smoke as a free action.
\par Astral Projection and Etherealness (Su): These function just like the spells of the same names as cast by a 20th-level sorcerer.
\par Carrying Capacity: A light load for a nightmare is up to 300 pounds; a medium load, 301-600 pounds; and a heavy load, 601-900 pounds.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Nymph}{
\par Medium-Size Fey\line Hit Dice: 3d6 (10 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft., swim 20 ft.\line AC: 11 (+1 Dex)\line Attacks: Dagger +1 melee\line Damage: Dagger 1d4\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line 
Special Attacks: Blinding beauty, unearthly beauty\line Special Qualities: Spell-like abilities\line Saves: Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +8\line Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10, Int_16, Wis 17, Cha_19\line Skills: Animal Empathy +10, Craft (any one) or Knowle
dge (any one) +7, Escape Artist +7, Heal +9, Hide +7, Listen +11, Move Silently +7, Sense Motive +9, Spot +11\line Feats: Ability Focus (unearthly beauty), Alertness, Dodge, Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 6\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always chaotic good\line Advancement: 4-9 HD (Medium-size)
\par Nymphs speak Sylvan and Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Blinding Beauty (Su): This ability operates continuously, affecting all humanoids within 60 feet of the nymph. Those who look directly at the
 nymph must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 15) or be blinded permanently as though by the blindness spell. The nymph can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
\par Unearthly Beauty (Su): The nymph can evoke this ability once every 10 minutes. Those within 30 feet of the nymph who look directly at it must succeed at a Will save (DC 17) or die. 
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Nymphs can use dimension door once per day as cast by a 7th-level sorcerer. They can also replicate druid spells as 7th-level casters (save DC 13+ spell level).
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Ogre}{
\par \tab \tab Ogre\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Ogre Mage
\par \tab \tab Large Giant\tab \tab \tab \tab Large Giant
\par Hit Dice:\tab 4d8+8 (26 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab 5d8+15 (37 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab -1 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab +4 (Improved Initiative)
\par Speed:\tab \tab 30 ft. (hide); base 40 ft.\tab \tab 40 ft., fly 40 ft. (good)
\par AC:\tab \tab 16 (-1 size, -1 Dex, +5 natural, \tab 18 (-1 size, +5 natural, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {+3 hide) \tab \tab \tab \tab +4 chain shirt)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Attacks:\tab Huge greatclub +8 melee;\tab \tab Huge greatsword +7 melee; 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {or Huge Large javelin +1 ranged\tab or Huge longbow +2 ranged
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Damage:\tab Huge greatclub 2d6+7;\tab \tab Huge greatsword 2d8+7; 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {or Huge Large javelin 1d8+5\tab \tab or Huge longbow 2d6
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Face/Reach:\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.\tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab -\tab \tab \tab \tab Spell-like abilities
\par Special Qualities:\tab -\tab \tab \tab \tab Regeneration 2, SR 18
\par Saves:\tab \tab Fort +6, Ref +0, Will +1\tab \tab Fort +7, Ref +1, Will +3
\par Abilities:\tab Str 21, Dex 8, Con 15,\tab \tab Str 21, Dex 10, Con 17, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {Int 6, Wis 10, Cha 7\tab \tab \tab Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 17
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Skills:\tab \tab Climb +4, Listen +2, Spot +2\tab \tab Concentration +6, Listen +5, 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li4320\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin4320\itap0 {Spellcraft +4, Spot +5
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Feats:\tab \tab Weapon Focus (greatclub)\tab \tab Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land, aquatic, and\tab \tab Any land and underground
\par \tab \tab underground
\par Organization:\tab Solitary, pair, gang (2-4),\tab \tab Solitary, pair, or troupe 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {or band (5-8)\tab \tab \tab \tab (1-2 plus 2-4 ogres)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Challenge Rating:\tab 2\tab \tab \tab \tab 8
\par Treasure:\tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab Double standard
\par Alignment:\tab \tab Usually chaotic evil\tab \tab Usually lawful evil
\par Advancement:\tab \tab By character class\tab \tab By character class
\par Ogres speak Giant, and those specimens who boast Intelligence scores of at least 10 also speak Common.
\par }{\cs19\i Merrow (Aquatic Ogre)}{
\par Apart from their habitat, speed (swim 40 ft.), and their penchant for longspears (attack +7 melee, damage 1d8+7), they are identical with their landbound cousins.
\par }{\cs19\i Ogre Mage}{
\par Ogre mages speak Giant and Common.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: At will-darkness and invisibility; 1/day-charm person, cone of cold, gaseous form, polymorph self, and sleep. These abilities are as the spells cast by a 9th-level sorcerer (save DC 13 + spell level).
\par Flight (Su): An ogre mage can cease or resume flight as a free action. While in gaseous form it can fly at normal speed and has perfect maneuverability.
\par Regeneration (Ex): Ogre mages take normal damage from fire and acid. An ogre mage that loses a limb or body part can reattach it by holding the severed member to the stump. Reattachment takes 1 minute. If the head or o
ther vital organ is severed, it must be reattached within 10 minutes or the creature dies. Ogre mages cannot regrow lost body parts.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Ooze}{
\par }{\fs20 Gray Ooze\tab \tab \tab Gelatinous Cube\tab \tab \tab Ochre Jelly
\par Medium-Size Ooze\tab \tab Huge Ooze\tab \tab \tab Large Ooze
\par Hit Dice: 3d10+10 (26 hp)\tab \tab 4d10+36 (58 hp)\tab \tab \tab 6d10+27 (60 hp)
\par Initiative: -5 (Dex)\tab \tab -5 (Dex)\tab \tab \tab \tab -5 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab 10 ft.\tab \tab \tab 15 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 10 ft., climb 10 ft.
\par AC:\tab 5 (-5 Dex)\tab \tab 3 (-2 size, -5 Dex)\tab \tab 4 (-1 size, -5 Dex)
\par Attacks:\tab  Slam +3 melee\tab \tab Slam +1 melee\tab \tab \tab Slam +5 melee
\par Damage: Slam 1d6+1 and 1d6 acid\tab Slam 1d6 and 1d6 acid\tab \tab Slam 2d4+3 and 1d4 acid
\par Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab 10 ft. by 10 ft./10 ft.\tab \tab 5 ft. by 10 ft./10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Improved grab,\tab Engulf, paralysis, acid\tab \tab Improved grab, acid,
\par acid, corrosion, constrict 1d6+1\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab constrict 2d4+3 and 1d4 acid
\par and 1d6 acid
\par Special Qualities:\tab Blindsight,\tab Blindsight, transparent, electricity\tab Blindsight, split, ooze
\par cold and fire immunity, ooze,\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab immunity, ooze\tab 
\par camouflage
\par Saves:\tab Fort +1, Ref -4, Will -4\tab Fort +5, Ref -4, Will -4\tab \tab Fort +4, Ref -3, Will -3
\par Abilities: Str 12, Dex 1, Con 11,\tab Str 10, Dex 1, Con 19,\tab \tab Str 15, Dex 1, Con 15,
\par \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1\tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab Any marsh\tab Any underground\tab \tab \tab Any marsh and underground
\par \tab and underground
\par Organization:\tab Solitary\tab \tab Solitary\tab \tab \tab \tab Solitary
\par Challenge Rating: 4\tab \tab 3\tab \tab \tab \tab 5
\par Treasure:\tab None\tab \tab 1/10th coins, 50% goods\tab \tab None
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab (no nonmetal or nonstone), 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\fs20 50% items (no nonmetal or 
\par }\pard \ql \li2880\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin2880\itap0 {\fs20 nonstone)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Alignment: Always neutral\tab Always neutral\tab \tab \tab Always neutral
\par Advancement: 4-6 HD \tab  \tab 5-12 HD (Huge);\tab \tab \tab 7-9 HD (Large);
\par (Medium-size); 7-9 HD (Large)\tab 13-24 HD (Gargantuan)\tab \tab 10-18 HD (Huge)
\par \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab \tab Black Pudding
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 \tab \tab \tab Huge Ooze
\par Hit Dice:\tab \tab 10d10+60 (115 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab \tab -5 (Dex)
\par Speed:\tab \tab \tab 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
\par AC:\tab \tab \tab 3 (-2 size, -5 Dex)
\par Attacks:\tab \tab \tab Slam +8 melee
\par Damage:\tab \tab Slam 2d6+4 and 2d6 acid
\par Face/Reach: \tab \tab 5 ft. by 20 ft./10 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab \tab Improved grab, acid, constrict
\par \tab \tab \tab 2d6+4 and 2d6 acid
\par Special Qualities:\tab \tab Blindsight, split, ooze
\par Saves:\tab \tab \tab Fort +7, Ref -2, Will -2
\par Abilities:\tab \tab Str 17, Dex 1, Con 19,
\par \tab \tab \tab Int -, Wis 1, Cha 1
\par Climate/Terrain:\tab \tab Any marsh and underground
\par Organization:\tab \tab Solitary
\par Challenge Rating:\tab 7
\par Treasure:\tab \tab None
\par Alignment:\tab \tab Always neutral
\par Advancement:\tab \tab 11-15 HD (Huge); 16-30 HD \-(Gargantuan)
\par }{\cs19\i Oozes}{
\par Blindsight (Ex): An ooze\rquote s entire body is a primitive sensory organ that can ascertain prey by scent and vibration within 60 feet.
\par Ooze: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. Not subject to critical hits.
\par }{\cs19\i Gray Ooze}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the gray ooze must hit with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Acid (Ex): A gray ooze secretes a digestive acid that quickly dissolves organic material and metal. Any melee hit deals acid damage. The ooze\rquote 
s acidic touch deals 40 points of damage per round to wood or metal objects. Armor or clothing dissolves and becomes useless immediately unless it succeeds at a Reflex save (DC 19). The acid cannot harm stone. A metal or wooden weapon that strikes
 a gray ooze also dissolves immediately unless it succeeds at a Reflex save (DC 19).
\par Constrict (Ex): A gray ooze deals automatic slam and acid damage with a successful grapple check. The opponent\rquote s clothing and armor suffer a -4 penalty to Reflex saves against the acid.
\par Camouflage (Ex): It takes a successful Spot check (DC 15) to recognize a motionless gray ooze for what it really is.
\par }{\cs19\i Gelatinous Cube}{
\par Engulf (Ex): Although it moves slowly, a gelatinous cube can simply mow down Large or smaller creatures as a
 standard action. It cannot make a slam attack during a round in which it engulfs. The gelatinous cube merely has to move over the opponents, affecting as many as it can cover. Opponents can make opportunity attacks against the cube, but if they do so the
y are not entitled to a saving throw. Those who do not attempt opportunity attacks must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 13) or be engulfed; on a success, they are pushed back or aside (opponent\rquote 
s choice) as the cube moves forward. Engulfed creatures are subject to the cube\rquote s paralysis and acid, and are considered to be grappled and trapped within its body.
\par Paralysis (Ex): Gelatinous cubes secrete an anesthetizing slime. A target hit by a cube\rquote s melee or engulf attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 16) or be paralyzed for 3d6 rounds. The cube can automatically engulf a paralyzed opponent.
\par Acid (Ex): A gelatinous cube\rquote s acid does not harm metal or stone.
\par Transparent (Ex): Gelatinous cubes are hard to see, even under ideal conditions, and it takes a successful Spot check (DC 15) to notice one. Creatures who fail to notice a cube and walk into it are automatically engulfed.
\par }{\cs19\i Ochre Jelly}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the ochre jelly must hit with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Acid (Ex): An ochre jelly secretes a digestive acid that dissolves only flesh. Any melee hit deals acid damage.
\par Constrict (Ex): An ochre jelly deals automatic slam and acid damage with a successful grapple check.
\par Split (Ex): Weapons and electricity attacks deal no damage to an ochre jelly. Instead the creature splits into two identical jellies, each with half the original\rquote s hit points (round down). A jelly with only 1 hit point cannot be further split.

\par }{\cs19\i Black Pudding}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the black pudding must hit with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Acid (Ex): The pudding secretes a digestive acid that dissolves organic material and metal quickly. Any melee hit deals acid damage. The pudding\rquote s acidic touch deals 50 points of damage per round to wood or metal objects. The opponent\rquote 
s armor and clothing dissolve and become useless immediately unless they succeed at Reflex saves (DC 19). The acid can dissolve stone, dealing 20 points of damage per round of contact. A metal 
or wooden weapon that strikes a black pudding also dissolves immediately unless it succeeds at a Reflex save (DC 19).
\par Constrict (Ex): A black pudding deals automatic slam and acid damage with a successful grapple check. The opponent\rquote s clothing and armor suffer a -4 penalty to Reflex saves against the acid.
\par Split (Ex): Weapons deal no damage to a black pudding. Instead the creature splits into two identical puddings, each with half the original\rquote s hit points (round down). A pudding with only 1 hit point cannot be further split.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Orc}{
\par Medium-Size Humanoid (Orc)\line Hit Dice: 1d8 (4 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 20 ft. (scale mail); base 30 ft.\line AC: 14 (+4 scale mail)\line Attacks: Greataxe +3 melee; or javelin +1 ranged\line Damage: Greataxe 1d12+3; or javelin 1d6+2\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., light sensitivity\line Saves: Fort +2, Ref +0, Will -1\line Abilities: Str 15, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 9, Wis 8, Cha 8\line Skills: Listen +2, Spot +2\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Gang (2-4), squad (11-20 plus 2 3rd-level \-
sergeants and 1 leader of 3rd-6th level), or band (30-100 plus 150% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 10 adults, _5 5th-level lieutenants, and 3 7th-level captains)\line Challenge Rating: 1/2\line Treasure: Standard\line 
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil\line Advancement: By character class
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Light Sensitivity (Ex): Orcs suffer a -1 penalty to attack rolls in bright sunlight or within the radius of a daylight spell.
\par }{\cs21\b Half-Orcs}{
\par The typical ability scores for a half-orc are Str 13, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 9, Wis 8, Cha 8. Half-orcs have 60-foot dark\-vision but are not sensitive to light.
\par }{\cs21\b Orc Characters}{
\par An orc\rquote s favored class is barbarian. Orc clerics can choose two of the following domains: Chaos, Evil, Strength, and War.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Otyugh}{
\par Large Aberration\line Hit Dice: 6d8+6 (33 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 17 (-1 size, +8 natural)\line Attacks: 2 tentacle rakes +3 melee, bite -2 melee\line Damage: Tentacle rake 1d6, bite 1d4\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./10 ft. (15 ft. with \-tentacle)\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, constrict 1d6, \-disease\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +3, Ref +2, Will +6\line Abilities: Str 11, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6\line 
Skills: Hide +5*, Listen +6, Spot +9\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or cluster (2-4)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 7-8 HD (Large); _9-15 HD (Huge)
\par Otyughs speak Common.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the otyugh must hit a Medium-size or smaller opponent with a tentacle attack. If it gets a hold, it can constrict.
\par Constrict (Ex): An otyugh deals automatic tentacle damage to a Medium-size or smaller opponent with a successful grapple check.
\par Disease (Ex): Filth fever [bite, Fortitude save (DC 12), incubation period 1d3 days; damage 1d3 temporary Dexterity and 1d3 temporary Constitution.]
\par Skills: *An otyugh receives a +8 racial bonus to Hide checks when in its lair, due to its natural coloration.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Owlbear}{
\par Large Beast\line Hit Dice: 5d10+20 (47 hp)\line Initiative: +1 (Dex)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 15 (-1 size, +1 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: 2 claws +7 melee, bite +2 melee\line Damage: Claw 1d6+5, bite 1d8+2\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.
\line Special Attacks: Improved grab\line Special Qualities: Scent\line Saves: Fort +8, Ref +5, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 21, Dex 12, Con 19, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10\line Skills: Listen +8, Spot +7
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate forest\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (5-8)\line Challenge Rating: 4\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 6-8 HD (Large); 9-15 HD (Huge)
\par A lair usually has 1d6 young, fetching a price of 3,000 gp each in many civilized areas. While owlbears cannot be domesticated, they can still be placed in strategically important areas as free-roaming guardians. A professional train
er charges 2,000 gp to rear or train an owlbear (DC 23 for a young creature, DC 30 for an adult).
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the owlbear must hit with a claw attack.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Pegasus}{
\par Large Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 4d10+12 (34 hp)\line Initiative: +2 (Dex)\line Speed: 60 ft., fly 120 ft. (average)\line AC: 14 (-1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: 2 hooves +7 melee, bite +2 melee\line Damage: Hoof 1d6+4, bite 1d3+2\line 
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\line Special Qualities: Scent, spell-like abilities\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 18, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13\line 
Skills: Listen +12, Sense Motive +7, Spot +12, Wilderness Lore +3\line Feats: Iron Will
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or herd (6-10)\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always chaotic good\line Advancement: 5-8 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Pegasi attack with their sharp hooves and powerful bite. Mated pairs and herds attack as a team, fighting to the death to defend their eggs and young, which fetch a handsome price in many civilized areas.
\par Spell-Like Abilities: Pegasi can detect good and detect evil at will within a 60-yard radius, as the spells cast by a 5th-level sorcerer.
\par Skills: Pegasi receive a +4 racial bonus to Listen and Spot checks.
\par }{\cs21\b Training a Pegasus}{
\par Pegasus eggs are worth 2,000 gp each on the open market, while young are worth 3,000 gp per head. Pegasi mature at the same rate as horses. Professional trainers charge 1,000 gp to rear or train a pegasus, which serves its master with absolute faith\-
fulness for life.
\par Training a pegasus requires a successful Handle Animal check (DC 22 for a young creature, DC 29 for an adult) and that the creature be willing. Trainers can reduce the DC by 5 and the training time by half by using a magic brid
le enchanted for the purpose. A pegasus can fight while carrying a rider, but the rider cannot also attack unless he or she succeeds at a Ride check.
\par Carrying Capacity: A light load for a pegasus is up to 300 pounds; a medium load, 301-600 pounds; and a heavy load, 601-900 pounds.
\par }{\cs19\i Phantom Fungus}{
\par Medium-Size Plant\line Hit Dice: 2d8+6 (15 hp)\line Initiative: +0\line Speed: 20 ft.\line AC: 14 (+4 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +3 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6+3\line Special Qualities: Plant, Improved invisibility\line Saves: Fort +6, Ref +0, Will_+0
\line Abilities: Str 14, Dex 10, Con 16, Int 2, Wis_11, Cha_9\line Skills: Move Silently +5
\par Climate/Terrain: Any underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 3\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 3-4 HD (Medium-size); 5-6 HD (Large)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Plant: Immune to mind-influencing effects, poison, sleep, paralysis, stunning, and polymorphing. Not subject to critical hits.
\par Improved Invisibility (Su): This ability is constant, allowing the phantom fungus to remain invisible e
ven when attacking. This works just like improved invisibility cast by a 12th-level sorcerer, and lasts as long as the phantom fungus is alive. This ability is not subject to the invisibility purge spell. Once killed, a phantom fungus becomes visible afte
r 1 minute.
\par Skills: Phantom fungus has a +5 racial bonus to Move Silently checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Phase Spider}{
\par Large Magical Beast\line Hit Dice: 5d10+15 (42 hp)\line Initiative: +7 (+3 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 40 ft., climb 20 ft.\line AC: 15 (-1 size, +3 Dex, +3 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +7 melee\line Damage: Bite 1d6+4 and poison\line 
Face/Reach: 10 ft. by 10 ft./5 ft.\line Special Attacks: Ethereal jaunt, poison\line Saves: Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +2\line Abilities: Str 17, Dex 17, Con 16, Int 7, Wis 13, Cha 10\line Skills: Climb +12, Move Silently +11, Spot +9\line 
Feats: Improved Initiative
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary or cluster (2-5)\line Challenge Rating: 5\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 6-8 HD (Large); 9-15 HD (Huge)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Phase spiders dwell and hunt o
n the Material Plane. Once a spider locates prey, however, it shifts to the Ethereal Plane to attack, attempting to catch its victim flat-footed. The spider shifts in, bites its victim, and retreats quickly back to the Ethereal Plane.
\par Ethereal Jaunt (Su): 
A phase spider can shift from the Ethereal to the Material Plane as a free action, and shift back again as a move-equivalent action (or during a move-equivalent action). The ability is otherwise identical with ethereal jaunt cast by a 15th-level sorcerer.

\par Poison (Ex): Bite, Fortitude save (DC 15); initial and secondary damage 2d6 temporary Constitution.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Phasm}{
\par Medium-Size Shapechanger\line Hit Dice: 15d8+30 (97_hp)\line Initiative: +6 (+2 Dex, +4 Improved Initiative)\line Speed: 30 ft.\line AC: 17 (+2 Dex, +5 natural)\line Attacks: 2 slams +12 melee\line Damage: Slam 1d3+1\line Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\line Special Qualities: Amorphous, scent, alternate form, telepathy, tremorsense\line Saves: Fort +11, Ref +11, Will +11\line Abilities: Str 12, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 14\line Skills: Bluff +1
5, Climb +7, Craft (any one) +7, Disguise +7*, Knowledge (any one) +7, Listen +10, Spot +10, Wilderness Lore +6\line Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Mobility, Skill Focus (Disguise)
\par Climate/Terrain: Any land and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 7\line Treasure: Standard\line Alignment: Usually neutral\line Advancement: 15-21 HD (Huge); 22-42 HD (Gargantuan)
\par Phasms can speak Common but prefer telepathic communication.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par If pursued or harassed, a phasm transforms into the most fearsome creature it knows, such as an adult white dragon or a fire giant, and attacks. When seriously hurt, it changes to some fast or agile form and tries to escape.
\par Amorphous (Ex): A phasm in its natural form is immune to poison, sleep, paralysis, stun, and polymorph. It is not subject to critical hits and, having no clear front or back, cannot be flanked.
\par Alternate Form (Su): Phasms can assume the form of any corporeal creature or object from Diminutive to Large size as a standard action. This ability is otherwise similar to shapechange as cast by a 20th-level sorcerer.
\par Telepathy (Su): Phasms can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): A phasm can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground, so long as it is touching the ground itself.
\par Skills: *When using alternate form, a phasm receives a +10 circumstance bonus to Disguise checks.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par }{\cs19\i\cf6 Planetouched}{\cf6 
\par \tab \tab Aasimar\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Tiefling
\par \tab \tab Medium-Size Outsider\tab \tab \tab Medium-Size Outsider
\par Hit Dice:\tab 1d8 (4 hp)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1d8 (4 hp)
\par Initiative:\tab +4 (Improved Initiative)\tab \tab \tab +1 (Dex)
\par Speed: \tab \tab 30 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 30 ft.
\par AC:\tab \tab 16 (+4 scale, +2 large shield)\tab \tab \tab 15 (+1 Dex, +3 studded 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\cf6 leather, +1 small shield)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf6 Attacks:\tab Longsword +1 melee; or \tab \tab \tab Rapier +2 melee; or 
\par \tab \tab light crossbow +1 ranged\tab \tab \tab light crossbow +2 ranged
\par Damage:\tab Longsword 1d8; or light crossbow 1d8\tab Rapier 1d6; or light crossbow 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li5040\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin5040\itap0 {\cf6 1d8
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf6 Face/Reach:\tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.\tab \tab \tab \tab 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
\par Special Attacks:\tab Light\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Darkness
\par Special Qualities:\tab Acid, cold, and electricity \tab \tab Fire, cold, and electricity 
\par \tab \tab \tab resistance 5\tab \tab \tab \tab resistance 5
\par Saves:\tab \tab \tab Fort +2, Ref +2, Will +3\tab \tab Fort +2, Ref +3, Will +2
\par Abilities:\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10,\tab \tab Str 10, Dex 13, Con 10,
\par \tab \tab \tab Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13\tab \tab Int 13, Wis 11, Cha 8
\par Skill:\tab \tab Heal +5, Knowledge (religion) +1,\tab \tab Bluff +1, Hide +3, Move 
\par \tab \tab Listen +4, Ride +1, Spot +4\tab \tab \tab Silently +2, Pick Pocket +3
\par Feats:\tab \tab \tab Improved Initiative\tab \tab \tab Weapon Finesse (rapier)
\par Climate/Terrain: \tab Any land and underground\tab \tab Any land and underground
\par Organization: \tab \tab Solitary or team (2-4)\tab \tab \tab Solitary or gang (2-4)
\par Challenge Rating:\tab 1/2\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 1/2
\par Treasure: \tab \tab Standard\tab \tab \tab \tab Standard
\par Alignment: \tab \tab Usually good (any)\tab \tab \tab Usually evil (any)
\par Advancement:\tab \tab By character class\tab \tab \tab By character class
\par }{\cs19\i\cf6 Aasimar}{\cf6 
\par Light (Sp): Aasimars can use light once per day as cast by a sorcerer of 1st level or their character level, whichever is higher.
\par Skills: Aasimars receive a +2 racial bonus to Spot and Listen checks.
\par }{\cs21\b\cf6 Aasimar Characters}{\cf6 
\par An aasimar\rquote s favored class is paladin.
\par }{\cs19\i\cf6 Tiefling}{\cf6 
\par Darkness (Sp): Tieflings can use darkness once per day as cast by a sorcerer of 1st level or their character level, whichever is higher.
\par Skills: Tieflings receive a +2 racial bonus to Bluff and Hide checks.
\par }{\cs21\b\cf6 Tiefling Characters}{\cf6 
\par A tiefling\rquote s favored class is rogue.}{
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Pseudodragon}{
\par Tiny Dragon\line Hit Dice: 2d12+2 (15 hp)\line Initiative: +0 \line Speed: 15 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)\line AC: 18 (+2 size, +6 natural)\line Attacks: Sting +4 melee, bite -1 melee\line Damage: Sting 1d3 and poison, bite 1\line Face/R
each: 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft./0 ft. (5_ft. with tail)\line Special Attacks: Poison\line Special Qualities: See invisibility, telepathy, immunities, SR_19\line Saves: Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +4\line Abilities: Str 11, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha_10
\line Skills: Hide +16*, Intuit Direction +3, Listen +5, Search_+2, Spot_+5\line Feats: Alertness
\par Climate/Terrain: Temperate and warm forest\line Organization: Solitary, pair, or clutch (3-5)\line Challenge Rating: 1\line Treasure: None\line Alignment: Always neutral good\line Advancement: 3-4 HD (Tiny)
\par A pseudodragon egg can fetch a price of up to 10,000 gp, and a hatchling as much as 20,000 gp.
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par Poison (Ex): Sting, Fortitude save (DC 12); initial damage sleep for 1 minute, secondary damage sleep for 1d3 days.
\par See Invisibility (Ex): Pseudodragons continuously see invisibility as the spell, with a range of 60 feet.
\par Telepathy (Su): Pseudodragons can communicate telepathically with creatures that speak Common or Sylvan, provided they are within 60 feet.
\par Immunities (Ex): Pseudodragons are immune to sleep and paralysis effects.
\par Skills: Pseudodragons have a chameleonlike ability that grants them a +4 racial bonus to Hide checks. *In forests or overgrown areas, this bonus improves to +8.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Purple Worm}{
\par Gargantuan Beast\line Hit Dice: 16d10+112 (200 hp)\line Initiative: -2 (Dex)\line Speed: 20 ft., burrow 20 ft., swim 10 ft.\line AC: 19 (-4 size, -2 Dex, +15 natural)\line Attacks: Bite +20 melee, sting +15 melee\line 
Damage: Bite 2d8+12, sting 2d6+6 and poison\line Face/Reach: 30 ft. by 30 ft. (coiled)/"15_ft.\line Special Attacks: Improved grab, swallow whole, poison\line Special Qualities: Tremorsense\line Saves: Fort +17, Ref +8, Will +4\line 
Abilities: Str 35, Dex 6, Con 25, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 8\line Skills: Climb +14
\par Climate/Terrain: Any aquatic and underground\line Organization: Solitary\line Challenge Rating: 12\line Treasure: No coins, 50% goods (stone only), no items\line Alignment: Always neutral\line Advancement: 16-32 HD (Gargantuan); 33-45 HD (Colossal)
\par }{\cs21\b Combat}{
\par In battle, a purple worm forms into a coil 15 feet across, biting and stinging anything within reach.
\par Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the purple worm must hit with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it can attempt to swallow the foe.
\par Swallow Whole (Ex): A purple worm can try to swallow a grabbed opponent of Huge or smaller size by making a successful grapple check. Once inside, the opponent takes 2d8+12 points of crushing dam\-age plus 8 points of acid dam\-age per round from the worm
\rquote s gizzard.  A swallowed creature can cut its way out by using a light slashing or piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to the gizzard (AC 20). 
Once the creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; another swallowed opponent must cut its own way out.
\par The worm\rquote s interior can hold one Huge, four Large, sixteen Medium-size, or sixty-four Small or smaller opponents.
\par Poison (Ex): Sting, Fortitude save (DC 24); initial damage 1d6 temporary Strength, secondary damage 2d6 temporary Strength.
\par Tremorsense (Ex): A purple worm can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par }}