{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-BoldCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Conques-Demi{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightItalic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f42\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}HandelGothicEF-Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Cachet Book{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f125\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f126\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f128\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f129\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f130\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f131\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f132\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\s18\qj \fi180\li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Core Body;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 Core Body No Indent;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-460\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f40\fs52\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext20 *H2;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 *H3;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f40\fs30\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext22 *H4;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text;}{
\s24\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext24 
*Small Table column body;}{\s25\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 \f39\fs21\up3\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon24 \snext25 *table col heads alone;}{\s26\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext26 *Small Table column shade body;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f41\fs19 Core Body Italic;}{\s28\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext28 Hanging bullet;}{\*\cs29 \additive \f38\fs24 Bullet Only;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx-512\tx0\tx180\tqr\tx271\tx360\tx1033\tqc\tx2165\tqr\tx3072\tb18547\tqc\tx20481\tx21248\tx21504\tqc\tx26880\tx29185\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext30 
Sidebar H3;}{\s31\qj \fi180\li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext31 Sidebar Body;}{\s32\qj \li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon31 \snext32 Sidebar Body No Indent;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\sb230\sa115\sl-460\slmult0
\keep\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f42\fs44\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext33 *H1;}{\*\cs34 \additive \f41\fs19 Sidebar Body Italic;}{\s35\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f43\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext35 *Table # & Title;}{\s36\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0
\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f43\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon35 \snext36 *Table #&Title/1 line;}{
\s37\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx-16254\tqr\tldot\tx0\tqc\tlhyph\tx31\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tb1033\tqc\tx1521\tqr\tlul\tx2090\tx2165\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqr\tx3584\tqc\tx3779\tqc\tldot\tx3840\tx4608\tb10372\tqc\tx16640\tqc\tldot\tx16705\tb16896\tx18501\tqr\tldot\tx18547
\tx19025\tb26368\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f39\fs21\cf8\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext37 *table column headers rev;}{\*\cs38 \additive \f39\fs21\super superscript # in tables;}{\*\cs39 
\additive \f41\fs19 Table Body Italic;}{\*\cs40 \additive \f38\fs21 back to reg body copy;}{\s41\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon19 \snext41 Spell List;}{\s42\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx185\tx371\tx2400\tqc\tx4200\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext42 *Small Table Notes;}{\*\cs43 \additive 
\f38\fs18 New Style Sheet;}}{\info{\title FX Basics}{\subject MSRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy3\hr11\min49}{\revtim\yr2003\mo8\dy29\hr10\min21}{\version81}{\edmins154}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords5234}{\nofchars29834}
{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws36638}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone FX BASICS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par Arcane spells, divine spells, and psionic powers are all representative of abilities beyond the scope of most ordinary individuals, and are called as a group FX abilities. FX abilities are features of a few advanced classes, and are not available to basic
 classes. FX abilities have a number of similarities to each other as well as obvious differences.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
A spell is a one-time magical effect. Magic is used by individuals with magical power, which include spellcasters and creatures with spells and spell-like abilities. Spells can be arcane or divine.
\par Arcane spells involve direct manipulation of mystic energies. These manipulations require long study, and tend to produce dramatic results. 
\par Divine spells draw power from an unworldly source, be it from within the caster\rquote 
s own beliefs or some greater entity of power. Divine spellcasting requires meditation and provides more utilitarian effects, including the ability to heal the wounded. Some spells may be cast by both arcane and divine caster, functioning as a
rcane spells when cast by arcane casters and divine spells when cast by divine casters.
\par 
\par Most spells require the caster to speak some utterance, make complex gestures, or sometimes expend an object or a small quantity of some substance. The spellcaster\rquote s a
ctivity is visible to others, and the effects often are too, but the magic itself is not.
\par 
\par Each spellcasting advanced class learns and casts spells differently.  See the class description for more details.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Casting a Spell
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 To cast a spell, the character mu
st be able to speak (if the spell has a verbal component), gesture (if it has a somatic component), and manipulate some material (if it has a material component) or focus (if any). Additionally, the character must concentrate to cast a spell. (See the Con
centration skill)
\par 
\par If a spell has multiple versions, the character chooses which version to use when he or she casts it.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 
\par How to Read a Spell Description
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Spells have a number of defining characteris
tics that distinguish each spell from the others. Each spell description includes most or all of the following pieces of information.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0\fs24 School
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The first line beneath the spell\rquote 
s name provides the school (and perhaps also a subschool) that the spell belongs to. Schools provide a way of grouping together spells that have certain characteristics in common.
\par }{\b\fs20 Abjuration: }{\fs20 Spells of this school are protective spells. They create physical or magical barriers or negate magical or physical abilities.
\par }{\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation): }{\fs20 
This type of spell manipulates matter to create an object or creature in a place the spellcaster designates. If the spell has a duration other than instantaneous, magic holds the creation together, and when the spell ends or is dispelled, the conjure
d creature or object vanishes without a trace. If the spell has an instantaneous duration, the created object or creature is merely assembled through magic. It lasts indefinitely and does not depend on magic for its existence.
\par }{\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing): }{\fs20 Certain divine conjuration spells can heal creatures  or even bring them back to life.
\par }{\b\fs20 Conjuration (Summoning): }{\fs20 A summoning spell instantly brings a creature or an object to a place the caster designates. When the spell ends or is dispelled, the summoned creatur
e is instantly sent back to where it came from, but a summoned object is not sent back unless the spell description specifically indicates this. A summoned creature also goes away if it is killed or dropped to 0 hit points.
\par }{\b\fs20 Conjuration (Teleporting): }{\fs20 A spell of this type transports one or more creatures or objects a great distance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Divination: }{\fs20 These spells enable you to learn information, to find hidden things (}{\cs27\fs20 true seeing}{\fs20 ), or to foil deceptive spells.
\par }{\b\fs20 Enchantment:}{\fs20  An enchantment spell affects the minds of others, influencing or controlling their behavior. All enchantment spells have the mind-affecting descriptor (see below for more on spell descriptors).
\par }{\b\fs20 Evocation:}{\fs20  These spells manipulate energy or tap an unseen source of power to produce a desired end. In
 effect, they create something out of nothing. Many of these spells produce spectacular effects, and evocation spells can deal large amounts of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Illusion:}{\fs20  Illusion spells deceive the senses or minds of others.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Saving Throws and Illusions (Disbelief):}{\b\fs20  }{\fs20 
Creatures encountering an illusion effect usually do not receive saving throws to recognize it as illusory until they study it carefully or interact with it in some fashion. This allows them to disbelieve the illusi
on. If any viewer successfully disbelieves an illusion and communicates this fact to other viewers, each such viewer gains a saving throw with a +4 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Necromancy: }{\fs20 Necromancy spells manipulate the power of death, unlife, and the life force. Spells involving undead creatures belong to this school, as do spells that utilize negative energy to deal damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Transmutation:}{\fs20  Transmutation spells change the properties of some creature, thing, or condition.
\par }{\b\fs20 Universal:}{\fs20  A small number of spells belong to no school and are designated as universal. The type of magic they involve does not fall into one of the above categories.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Descriptors
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 
Descriptors are a way of classifying spells (often from different schools) that have some common characteristic. }{\fs20 
\par A spell\rquote s descriptors (if any) appear in brackets on the line identifying the school. Descriptors used for spells include cold, electricity, fear, fire, force, language-dependent, light, mind-affecting, and sonic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Level
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The relative power of a spell is indicated by its level. A spell\rquote 
s level also indicates whether a particular spellcaster is capable of preparing and casting the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spell Slots:}{\fs20  Every spellcaster can prepare as many spells every day as he or she has spell slots. (See the advance class description for details.)
\par Spell slots have levels just as spells do; a spell slot of a certain level is designed to hold a spell of that level. It\rquote s possible, however, to place a lower-level spell in a higher-level spell slot if you desire. A character doesn\rquote 
t have to fill all spell slots with prepared spells every day (although it usually makes sense to do so).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Components
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Every spell has at least one type of component that the spellcaster must provide at the time of casting.

\par }{\b\fs20 Verbal (V):}{\fs20  To cast a spell with a verbal component, a character must speak in a firm voice. If the character cannot speak, he or she can\rquote 
t cast such a spell. A spellcaster who has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any spell he or she tries to cast if that spell has a verbal component.
\par }{\b\fs20 Somatic (S):}{\fs20  To cast a spell with a somatic component, a character must gesture freely with at least one hand. A character can\rquote 
t cast a spell that has a somatic component while bound, grappled, or with both hands full or occupied. If an arcane spellcaster casts a spell with a somatic component while wearing armor, the armor may bring with it an arcane spell failure chance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Material (M): }{\fs20 A material component is an object or a small amount of some substance that the caster must have on hand. It is expended and disappears
 when the spell is cast. Preparing these materials is a free action. The purchase DCs for expensive material components are included in the spell descriptions; if no value is given, assume a purchase DC of 2.
\par }{\b\fs20 Focus (F):}{\fs20  A focus is similar to a material component, except that it is not expended when the spell is cast.
\par }{\b\fs20 Divine Focus (DF):}{\fs20  Some divine spells require the caster to provide a divine focus. Unless some other focus is specified in the spell description this is a holy symbol of the character\rquote s.
\par Sometimes the Components entry of a spell description contains the entry \'93M/DF\'94. This indicates a spell that can be cast as either an arcane spell or a divine spell\emdash 
an arcane caster casting it needs the specified material component, while a divine caster needs to provide a divine focus.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Casting Time
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This entry tells how much time is needed to complete the casting of a spell once it is begun. 
\par Casting a spell with a casting time of 1 action is an attack action. The spell takes effect immediately.
\par Casting a spell with a casting time of 1 full round is a full-round action. A character can take a 5-foot step before, during, or after casting, but you cannot otherwise move. The spell takes effect at the beginning of that character\rquote 
s turn in the round after he or she began to cast it. The character then acts normally after the casting is completed. 
\par A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before the character\rquote s turn 1 minute later (the character spends each of those 10 rounds casting as a full-round action).
\par When a character begins a spell that takes 1 full round or longer to cast, 
he or she must continue the invocations, gestures, and/or concentration from one round to just before his or her turn in the next round (at least). If the character loses concentration after starting the casting and before it is complete, the spell is los
t (see the Concentration skill).
\par A character retains his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense while casting a spell.
\par 
\par Attacks of Opportunity: Generally, if a character attempts to cast a spell, he or she provokes attacks of opportunity from threatening enemies
. Table: FX Actions in Combat specifies whether a certain activity provokes attacks of opportunity (AoO). If a character takes damage from an attack of opportunity, he or she must make a Concentration check or lose the spell he or she was trying to cast.

\par 
\par Casting on the Defensive: A character may attempt to cast a spell while on the defen\-
sive. This option means casting the spell while paying attention to threats and avoiding blows. In this case, the character are no more vulnerable to attack than he or she
 would be if the character was just standing there, so casting while on the defensive does not provoke an attack of oppor\-\-\-tunity. It does, how\-ever, require a Concentration check (DC 15 + spell level) to pull off. Failure means the spell is lost..

\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Table: FX Actions in Combat\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 Attack Actions\cell }\pard\plain \s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {AoO?\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Activate a ring, rod, staff, wand, or wondrous item\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 
Cast a spell (attack action casting time)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Concentrate to maintain an active spell or power\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Dismiss a spell or power\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Drink a potion\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Manifest a power (attack action manifestation time)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Read a scroll\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Turn or rebuke undead\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Use spell-like ability\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Use supernatural ability\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Use extraordinary ability\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Use touch spell on self\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row 
}\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Move Actions\cell }\pard 
\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {AoO?\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Direct or redirect an active spell or power\cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Full-Round Actions\cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {AoO?\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cast a spell (full-round action casting time)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Manifest a power \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \~\~(full-round action  manifestation time)\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Use touch spell on up to six friends\cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Yes\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Free Actions\cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {AoO?\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Cease concentration on a spell or power\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Prepare spell components to cast a spell
\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Make Spellcraft check on counterspell attempt\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 No\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4251\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4967\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Range
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 A spell\rquote s range indicates how far from the caster it can reach\emdash 
the maximum distance from the caster that the spell\rquote s effect can occur, as well as the maximum distance at which the caster can designate the spell\rquote s point of origin. If any portion of the spell\rquote 
s area would extend beyond the range, that area is }{\fs20 wasted.
\par A spell\rquote s range usually falls into one of the following categories.
\par }{\b\fs20 Personal:}{\fs20  The spell affects only the caster.
\par }{\b\fs20 Touch: }{\fs20 The caster must touch a creature or object to affect it. To use a touch spell, the caster casts the spell and then touches the subject, either in the same round or any time later. In t
he same round that the character casts the spell, he or she may also touch (or attempt to touch) the target. The caster may take his or her move before casting the spell, after touching the target, or between casting the spell and touching the target. A c
haracter can automatically touch one friend or use the spell on his or herself, but to touch an opponent, the character must suc\-ceed on an attack.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Touch Attacks:}{\fs20  Since the character only needs to touch the enemy, he or she makes a touch attack instead of a
 regular attack. Touching an opponent with a touch spell is considered to be an armed attack and therefore does not provoke attacks of opportunity when it is discharged on an armed opponent. However, the act of casting a spell does provoke attacks of oppo
rtunity.
\par Touch attacks come in two types: melee touch attacks (for touches made with the character\rquote s hand) and ranged touch attacks (for touches made with projectile and ray effects). The caster can score critical hits with either type of attack. The oppone
nt\rquote s Defense against a touch attack does not include any equipment bonus or natural armor bonus. The opponent\rquote s size modifier and Dexterity modifier both apply normally. 
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Holding the Charge:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20 The caster does not have to touch the target immediately after casting a touch spell. Instead, he or she can \'93hold the charge,\'94
 waiting to discharge the spell at a later time. If the character touches anything with his or her hand while holding a charge, the spell discharges. Otherwise, the character can make touch atta
cks round after round, until he or she succeeds (and thus discharge the spell). A character can touch one friend (or his or herself) as an attack action, or up to six friends as a full-round action. If the character casts another spell, the touch spell di
ssipates.
\par }{\b\fs20 Close: }{\fs20 The spell reaches up to 25 feet away from the caster. The maximum range increases by 5 feet for every two full spellcasting class levels.
\par }{\b\fs20 Medium: }{\fs20 The spell reaches up to 100 feet + 10 feet per class level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Long: }{\fs20 The spell reaches up to 400 feet + 40 feet per class level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Range Expressed in Feet:}{\fs20  Some spells have no standard range category, just a range expressed in a unit of measurement (usually feet).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Target
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 Some spells have a specific target or targets. A caster uses these spells dire
ctly on creatures or objects, as defined by the spell itself. The caster must be able to see or touch the target, and must specifically choose that target.}{\fs20 
  The caster does not have to select his or her target until he or she finishes casting the spell.
\par If the character casts a targeted spell on the wrong sort of target the spell has no effect.
\par If the target of a spell is the caster (\'93Target: You\'94), the caster does not receive a saving throw, and spell resistance does not apply.
\par }{\b\fs20 Subject: }{\fs20 The descriptive text of spells makes a distinction between \'93target\'94 and \'93subject.\'94
 The target of a spell is the creature(s) or object(s) it is directed against. A target becomes a subject if it fails a saving throw against the spell and is thus affected by the magic.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Effect
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Some spells create or summon things rather than affecting things that are already present. The caster must designate the location where these things are to appear, either by seeing it or defining it. Range determines how far aw
ay an effect can appear, but if the effect is mobile it can move regardless of the spell\rquote s range.
\par }{\b\fs20 Ray:}{\fs20  Some effects are rays. The caster aims a ray as if using a ranged weapon, though typically the character makes a ranged touch attack rather than a norma
l ranged attack. As with a ranged weapon, the character can fire into the dark or at an invisible creature and hope to hit something. A character doesn\rquote 
t have to see the creature he or she is trying to hit, as with a targeted spell. Intervening creatures and obstacles, however, can block the caster\rquote s line of sight or provide cover for the creature being aimed at.
\par If a ray has a duration, it\rquote s the duration of the effect that the ray causes, not the length of time the ray itself persists.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spread:}{\fs20  Some effects, notably clouds and fogs, spread out from a point of origin to a distance given in the spell description. The effect can extend around corners and into areas the caster can\rquote 
t see. Figure distance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the spell effect takes. The caster must designate the point of origin, but need not have line of effect (see below) to all portions of the effect.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 
\par Area
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Some spells affect an area. The caster selects where the spell starts, but otherwise doesn\rquote 
t control which creatures or objects the spell affects. Sometimes a spell describes a specially defined area, but usually an area falls into one of the following categories.
\par }{\b\fs20 Burst: }{\fs20 As with an effect, the caster selects the spell or power\rquote s point of origin. The spell or power bursts out from this point, affecting whatever it catches in its area.
\par A burst spell has a radius that indicates how far from the point of origin the spell\rquote s effect extends.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cone:}{\fs20  A cone shoots away from the caster in the direction he or she designates. A cone starts in a square adjacent to the caster and widens out as it goes. A cone\rquote 
s width at a given distance from you equals that distance. Its far end is as wide as the effect is long. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Creatures:}{\fs20  Some spells affect creatures directly (as a spell 
with a target does), but they affect creatures in an area of some kind rather than individual creatures the caster selects. The area might be a burst, a cone, or some other shape.
\par Many spells affect \'93living creatures,\'94 which means all creatures other than constructs and undead. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Cylinder:}{\fs20  As with a burst, the caster selects the spell\rquote s point of origin. This point is the center of a horizontal circle, and the spell shoots down from the circle, filling a cylinder. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Emanation:}{\fs20  Some spells have an area like a burst except that the effect continues to radiate from the point of origin for the duration of the spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Quarter-Circle:}{\fs20  Some spells have a quarter-circle-shaped area. Like a cone, the effect starts in a square adjacent to the caster and widens out as it goes.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spread:}{\fs20 
 Some spells spread out like a burst but can turn corners. The caster selects the point of origin, and the spell spreads out a given distance in all directions. Figure distance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the spell effect takes.

\par }{\b\fs20 Other:}{\fs20  A spell or power can have a unique area, as defined in its description.
\par }{\b\fs20 (S):}{\fs20  If an Area or Effect entry ends with \'93(S)\'94 (standing for \'93shapeable\'94), the caster can shape the spell. A shaped effect or area can have no dimension smaller than 10 feet.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par Line of Effect:}{\fs20  A line of effect is a straight, unblocked path that indicates what a spell can affect. A line of effect is canceled by a solid barrier. It\rquote s like line of sight for ranged weapons, except it\rquote 
s not blocked by fog, darkness, and other factors that limit normal sight.
\par A caster must have a clear line of effect to any target that he or she uses a spell on, or to any space in which he or she wish
es to create an effect. The caster must have a clear line of effect to the point of origin of any spell he or she casts or power he or she manifests. For bursts, cones, cylinders, and emanation spells, the spell only affects areas, creatures, or objects t
o which it has line of effect from its origin (a burst\rquote s point, a cone\rquote s starting point, a cylinder\rquote s circle, or an emanation spell\rquote s point of origin).
\par A hole of at least 1 square foot is sufficient to allow a line of effect through an otherwise solid barrier. If any given 5-foot length of barrier contains such an opening, that 5-foot length is not considered a barrier for purposes of a spell\rquote 
s line of effect (though the rest of the barrier still counts as normal). 
\par }{\b\fs20 Directing or Redirecting Effects: }{\fs20 Some spells allow the caster to redirect the effect to new targets or areas after casting the spell. Redirecting a spell requires a move action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. It also doesn
\rquote t require concentration.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Duration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The Duration entry of a spell description tells how long the effect of the spell lasts.
\par }{\b\fs20 Timed Durations:}{\fs20  Many durations are measured in rounds, minutes, hours, or some other increment. When the time is up, the magical energy goes away and the spell ends. If a spell\rquote s duration is variable, the GM rolls it secretly.

\par }{\b\fs20 Instantaneous: }{\fs20 The spell energy comes and goes the instant the spell is cast, though the consequences of the spell might be long-lasting. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Permanent:}{\fs20  The effect remains indefinitely, but is sustained by lingering magical energy. If the energy goes away, so does the effect.
\par }{\b\fs20 Concentration:}{\fs20  The spell or power lasts as long as the caster concentrates on it, possibly up to a specified maximum amount of time. Concentrating to maintain a spell is an attack action that does n
ot provoke attacks of opportunity. Anything that could break the character\rquote 
s concentration when casting a spell can also break his or her concentration while maintaining one, causing the spell to be ruined (see Concentration, below). A character can\rquote t cast a spell while concentrating on another one.
\par Sometimes a spell lasts for a short time after the character ceases concentrating. In these cases, the spell keeps going for the stated length of time after the character stops concentrating.
\par }{\b\fs20 Subjects, Effects, and Areas: }{\fs20 If a spell affects creatures directly, the result travels with the subjects for the spell\rquote 
s duration. If the spell creates an effect, the effect lasts for the duration. The effect might move or remain still. Such an effect can be destroyed prio
r to the end of its duration. If the spell affects an area, the spell stays with that area for the spell\rquote s duration. Creatures become subject to the spell when they enter the area and are no longer subject to it when they leave.
\par }{\b\fs20 Discharge: }{\fs20 A few spells la
st for a set duration or until triggered or discharged. The spell remains in place until the triggering condition is met (at which point it takes effect) or the maximum duration is reached (at which point it dissipates, with no effect).
\par }{\b\fs20 (D):}{\fs20  If the Duration entry ends with \'93(D)\'94 (standing for \'93dismissible\'94
), the caster can dismiss the spell at will. The caster must be within range of the effect of the spell to dismiss it. Dismissing a spell is an attack action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
A spell that depends on concentration is dismissible by its very nature, and dismissing it does not require an action (since all the caster has to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Saving Throw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Most harmful spells allow an affected creature to make a saving throw to avoid some or all of the effect. The Saving Throw entry in a spell description defines which type of saving throw the spell allows and describes how saving throws against the spell w
ork.
\par }{\b\fs20 Negates: }{\fs20 This term means the spell has no effect on a creature that makes a successful saving throw.
\par }{\b\fs20 Partial: }{\fs20 The spell causes an effect on its subject. A successful saving throw means that some lesser effect occurs.
\par }{\b\fs20 Half: }{\fs20 The spell deals damage, and a successful saving throw halves the damage taken (round down).
\par }{\b\fs20 None:}{\fs20  No saving throw is allowed.
\par }{\b\fs20 Disbelief: }{\fs20 A saving throw is not allowed purely on the basis of encountering the spell. Rather, the creature gets a saving throw only after interacting wi
th or carefully studying the spell. A successful save lets the subject ignore the effect.
\par }{\b\fs20 (Object):}{\fs20  The spell can be cast on objects, which receive saving throws only if they are magical in nature, or if they are attended (held, worn, or grasped) by a creature resisting the spell, in which case the object gets the creature
\rquote s saving throw bonus unless its own bonus is greater. (This notation does not mean that a spell can only be cast on objects. Some spells of this sort can be cast on creatures or objects.)
\par }{\b\fs20 (Harmless):}{\fs20  The spell is usually beneficial, not harmful, but a targeted creature can attempt a saving throw if it wishes.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par Saving Throw Difficulty Class:}{\fs20  A saving throw against a spell has a DC of 10 + the level of the spell + the spellcaster\rquote s bonus for the relevant ability (see spellcasting advanced class for details).
\par }{\b\fs20 Succeeding at a Saving Throw: }{\fs20 A creature that successfully saves against a spell without obvious physical effects feels a hostile force or a tingle, but cannot deduce the exact nature of the attack.  Likewise, if a creature\rquote 
s saving throw succeeds against a targeted spell the caster senses that the spell has failed. The caster does not sense when creatures succeed at saving throws against effect and area spells.
\par }{\b\fs20 Voluntarily Giving up a Saving Throw: }{\fs20 A creature can voluntarily forego a saving throw and willingly accept a spell\rquote s result. Even a character with a special resistance to magic can suppress this resistance if he or she wants to.

\par }{\b\fs20 Items Surviving after a Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Unless the descriptive text for the spell specifies otherwise, all items carried and worn are assumed to survive a magical attack. 
\par If an item is not carried or worn and is not magical, it does not get a saving throw. It is simply dealt the appropriate damage. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Spell Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Spell resistance is a special defensive ability that protects against spells.
\par Each spell description includes an entry that indicates whether spell resistance applies to the spell (if so, Yes; if not, No). In general, whether spell resistance applies depends on what the spell does:
\par }{\b\fs20 Targeted Spell:}{\fs20  If the spell is targeted at a creature, spell resistance applies. If the spell targets multiple specific creatures, spell resistance applies to those individuals that have it.
\par }{\b\fs20 Area Spell:}{\fs20  If the target is within the area of a spell, its spell resistance applies. The spell resistance protects the resistant creature without affecting the spell itself.
\par }{\b\fs20 Effect Spell:}{\fs20  Most effect spells summon or create something and are not subject to spell resistance. Effect spells that affect a creature more or less directly are sometimes subject to spell resistance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Level Check:}{\fs20  If a spell is being resisted by a creature with spell resistance, the caster must make a level check (1d20 + caster level) and get a result at least equal to the creature\rquote 
s spell resistance for the spell to affect that creature. If the caster fails the check, the spell doesn\rquote t affect the defender. The defender\rquote s spell resistance is like a Defense score against magical attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20 (Harmless) and (Object):}{\fs20 
 These terms mean the same thing in a spell resistance entry as they do for saving throws. A creature with spell resistance must voluntarily drop the resistance in order to receive the effects of a spell noted as harmless wit
hout the level check described above. Doing so is an attack action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. Once a creature lowers its resistance, it remains down until the creature\rquote 
s next turn, at the beginning of which it automatically returns. A creature\rquote s spell resistance never interferes with its own spells, powers, items, or abilities.
\par 
\par Only spells and spell-like abilities are subject to spell resistance. Extraordinary and supernatural abilities (including enhancement bonuses on magic weapons) 
are not. A creature can have some abilities that are subject to spell resistance and others that are not.
\par Spell resistance does not stack with power resistance, and vice versa.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Descriptive Text
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A spell\rquote s descriptive text explains how the spell works or wh
at it does and includes necessary information such as the spell\rquote s material component.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 The Spell\rquote s Result
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Spells and Critical Hits: A spell that requires an attack roll can score a critical hit. A spell attack that requires no attack roll cannot score a critical hit.
\par 
\par }{Interrupting FX Users
\par }{\b\fs20 Distracting Spellcasters and Psionic Characters:}{\fs20  A character can ready an attack against a character or creature with the trigger \'93if he or she starts casting a spell or manifesting a power.\'94 If the attack succeeds in dam
aging the character or otherwise distracting him or her, he or she may lose the FX ability he or she was trying to use (as determined by his or her Concentration check result).
\par }{\b\fs20 Readying a Counterspell:}{\fs20  A character may ready a counterspell against a spellcaster (often with the trigger \'93if he or she starts casting a spell\'94
). In this case, when the spellcaster starts a spell, the character gets a chance to identify it with a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell level). If the character does, and if he or she can c
ast that same spell (are able to cast it and have it prepared), the character can cast the spell as a counterspell and automatically ruin the other spellcaster\rquote s spell. Counterspelling works even if one spell is divine and the other arcane.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Spell Failure
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
If a caster ever tries to cast a spell in conditions where the characteristics of the spell (range, area, and so forth) cannot be made to conform, the effort fails and the spell is wasted.
\par Spells also fail if the caster\rquote s concentration is broken. Arcane spells (but not divine spells) might fail if the character is wearing armor while casting a spell that has a somatic component.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Arcane Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Arcane spells involve the direct manipulation of mystic energies. These manipulations require natura
l talent and long study. Compared to divine spells, arcane spells are more likely to produce dramatic results, such as flight, explosions, or transformations. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Preparing Arcane Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The rules for which spells, and how many spells, an arcane spellcaster 
can cast are given in the class description. The class description also includes information on how the character prepares spells each day.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Arcane Magical Writings
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 To decipher an arcane magical writing, a character must make a successful Spellcraft check 
(DC 20 + the spell\rquote s level). If the check fails, the character cannot attempt to read that particular spell until the next day. A }{\cs27\fs20 read magic}{\fs20 
 spell automatically deciphers a magical writing without a skill check. If the person who created the magical writing is on hand to help the reader, success is also automatic.
\par Once a character deciphers a particular magical writing, he or she does not need to decipher it again. Deciphering a magical writing allows the reader to identify the spell and gives some idea of 
its effects (as explained in the spell description). If the magical writing was a scroll and the reader can cast arcane spells, he or she can attempt to use the scroll.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Divine Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Unlike arcane spells, divine spells draw power from the strength of the spellcaster\rquote 
s beliefs. Divine spells tend to be less flashy, destructive, and disruptive than arcane spells. What they do that arcane spells don\rquote t do is heal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Preparing Divine Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The rules for which spells, and how many spells, a divine spellcaster ca
n cast are given in the class description. The class description also includes information on how the character prepares spells each day.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Divine Magical Writings
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Divine spells can be written down and deciphered just as arcane spells can (see Arcane Magica
l Writings, above). Any character with the Spellcraft skill can attempt to decipher the divine magical writing and identify it. However, only characters who are capable of casting the spell in its divine form can cast a divine spell from a scroll. (The ch
aracter does not have to have the spell prepared; he or she only has to be capable of preparing and casting it in general.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Psionic Powers
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
A psionic power is a one-time psionic effect manifested by a psionic character or creature. Psionic powers require po
wer points to use, although naturally psionic creatures can manifest their powers a certain number of times per day with no power point cost. 
\par Each psionic power is tied to a specific ability, which is the key ability for that psionic power. A psionic character must have a key ability score equal to at least 10 + the power\rquote s level to manifest a particular power.
\par Unlike arcane spellcasters, psionic characters don\rquote t have spellbooks and they don\rquote t prepare their powers ahead of time. A psionic character\rquote s level
 limits the number of power points available for manifesting powers. A psionic character has a set number of powers available that he may manifest at will, provided he has sufficient power points to pay for the manifestation.
\par A power manifests when the psionic character pays its power point cost. The character pays the cost, and the power manifests immediately.
\par Psionic powers don\rquote t require special gestures, words, or materials. They operate as thoughts made manifest. Most powers do have a noticeable display associated with their use, however.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Manifesting a Power
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Psionic advanced classes describe how many powers each class knows by level, as well as how many power points they have available each day.
\par To manifest a power, a character selects one power that he or she knows and pays the power point cost.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Power Points
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A power\rquote s cost is determined by its level, as shown below. Every power\rquote 
s cost is also noted in its description for easy reference.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1453\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2025
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2341\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2657\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2973\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3289\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3605\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Power Level\cell 0\cell 1\cell 2\cell 3\cell 4\cell 5\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1453\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2025\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2341\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2657\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2973\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3289\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3605\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1453\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2341\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2657\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2973\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3289\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3605\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Power point cost\cell 0/1*\cell 1\cell 3\cell 5\cell 7\cell 9\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1453\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2025\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2341\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2657\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2973\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3289\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3605\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\cs43\fs20 *A psionic character can manifest any 0-level power he or she knows a number of times per day equal to 3 + his or her psionic level; additional manifestations cost 1 power point each.
\par }{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 How to Read a Power Description
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 In most significant respects, manifesti
ng a psionic power follows the same rules as casting a spell. The differences between a power description and a spell description are summarized in this section. See How to Read a Spell Description, above, for information that is the same for both psionic
 powers and spells.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Key Ability
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The first line beneath the power\rquote 
s name provides the key ability associated with the power. A psionic character must have a score in this ability equal to at least 10 + the power\rquote s level in order to manifest the power. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Descriptors
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 
Descriptors are a way of classifying powers that have some common characteristic. Descriptors are often useful for knowing which creatures are or are not affected by a power. }{\fs20 A power\rquote 
s descriptors (if any) appear in brackets on the line containing the key ability. Descriptors for powers include compulsion, electricity, fire, language-dependent, and mind-affecting.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Level
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The relative strength of a power is indicated by its level. A power\rquote 
s level also indicates whether a particular psionic character is capable of using the power, based on the character\rquote s class level and key ability score. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Display
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
When psionic powers manifest, secondary displays usually accompany the primary effect. The psionic display may be auditory (Au), material (Ma), mental (Me), olfactory (Ol), or visual (Vi). Each power describes the sort of display that accompanies it.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Manifestation Time
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Manifesting a psionic power is either an attack action or a full-round action, depending on the power. See the power descriptions for details.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Range
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Each psionic power has a range, as listed in the power description. A power\rquote 
s range is the maximum distance from the psionic character that the power\rquote s effect can occur. The range categories are the same as the ones used for spells.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Target, Effect, Area
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 These terms are defined and used the same as they are for spells.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Saving Throw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Most harmful powers allow an affected target a saving throw to avoid some or all of the effect. Each power lists which saving throw type applies. The DC for a saving throw to resist a power is 10 + the power\rquote s level + the psionic character\rquote 
s key ability modifier. The terms used to define the various types of saving throws and results are the same as for spells.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Power Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Power resistance is a special
 defensive ability that protects against psionic powers. If a psionic character faces a creature with power resistance, he or she must make a level check (1d20 + psionic character\rquote s class level) equal to or greater than the creature\rquote 
s power resistance for the power to affect it.
\par Each power description includes an entry that indicates whether power resistance applies to the power (if so, Yes; if not, No). Other details are the same as for spell resistance.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Power Point Cost
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 All powers of a certain level have
 the same power point cost. The point cost to manifest a particular power is also provided in that power\rquote s description.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Descriptive Text
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A power\rquote s descriptive text explains how the power works or what it does.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Power Failure
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 If a character tries to manife
st a power in conditions where the characteristics of the spell (range, area, and so forth) cannot be made to conform, the effort fails and the power is wasted.
\par Powers also fail if the character\rquote s concentration is broken (see the Concentration skill).
\par }}