{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f38\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-BoldCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Conques-Demi{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightItalic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}HandelGothicEF-Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f43\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Cachet Book{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f125\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f126\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f128\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f129\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f130\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f131\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f132\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f351\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f349\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f350\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f352\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f353\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f354\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f355\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f356\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f359\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f357\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f358\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f360\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f361\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f362\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f363\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f364\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 
heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{
\s18\qj \fi180\li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Core Body;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 Core Body No Indent;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-460\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\caps\f40\fs52\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext20 *H2;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 *H3;}{
\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs30\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext22 *H4;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text;}{\s24\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext24 *Small Table column body;}{\s25\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 
\f39\fs21\up3\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext25 *table col heads alone;}{\s26\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext26 *Small Table column shade body;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f41\fs19 Core Body Italic;}{\s28\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx360\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext28 Hanging bullet;}{\*\cs29 \additive \f38\fs24 Bullet Only;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx-512\tx0\tx180\tqr\tx271\tx360\tx1033\tqc\tx2165\tqr\tx3072\tb18547\tqc\tx20481\tx21248\tx21504\tqc\tx26880\tx29185\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext30 Sidebar H3;}{
\s31\qj \fi180\li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext31 Sidebar Body;}{\s32\qj \li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0
\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon31 \snext32 Sidebar Body No Indent;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\sb230\sa115\sl-460\slmult0
\keep\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f42\fs44\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext33 *H1;}{\*\cs34 \additive \f41\fs19 Sidebar Body Italic;}{\s35\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f43\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext35 *Table # & Title;}{\s36\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f43\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon35 \snext36 *Table #&Title/1 line;}{\s37\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx-16254\tqr\tldot\tx0\tqc\tlhyph\tx31\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tb1033\tqc\tx1521\tqr\tlul\tx2090\tx2165\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqr\tx3584\tqc\tx3779\tqc\tldot\tx3840\tx4608\tb10372\tqc\tx16640\tqc\tldot\tx16705\tb16896\tx18501\tqr\tldot\tx18547
\tx19025\tb26368\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f39\fs21\cf8\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext37 *table column headers rev;}{\*\cs38 \additive \f39\fs21\super superscript # in tables;}{\*\cs39 \additive 
\f41\fs19 Table Body Italic;}{\*\cs40 \additive \f38\fs21 back to reg body copy;}{\s41\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon19 \snext41 
Spell List;}{\s42\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx185\tx371\tx2400\tqc\tx4200\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext42 *Small Table Notes;}{\*\cs43 \additive \f38\fs18 New Style Sheet;}{
\s44\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext44 xl22;}{
\s45\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext45 xl24;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title Spells}{\subject MSRD}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy25\hr16\min7}{\revtim\yr2003\mo8\dy29\hr11\min4}{\version135}{\edmins307}{\nofpages28}{\nofwords16464}{\nofchars93850}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws115254}{\vern8283}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone SPELLS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 Hit Dice:}{\fs20  The term \'93Hit Dice\'94 is used synonymously with \'93character levels\'94 for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of creatures.
 A creature with only Hit Dice from its species, not from any classes it may have, has a character level equal to its Hit Dice. A creature with class levels is considered to have Hit Dice equal to the total of its Hit Dice and its class levels.
\par }{\b\fs20 Caster Level:}{\fs20  A spell\rquote s power often depends on caster level, which is the caster\rquote 
s level in the appropriate spellcasting class. Creatures with no classes have a caster level equal to their Hit Dice unless otherwise specified.
\par }{\b\fs20 Creatures and Characters: }{\fs20 \'93Creatures\'94 and \'93characters\'94 are used synonymously in the spell descriptions.
\par }{\b\fs20 List Format:}{\fs20  Spells in the following lists are presented in order of spell level (from lowest to highest) and alphabetized within each level group. A brief description of the spell\rquote s effect is provided.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\ulnone Arcane Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }{\b\fs20 0-Level Mage Spells
\par Daze:}{\fs20  Subject takes no actions for 1 round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Detect Magical Aura:}{\fs20  Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20 Light: }{\fs20 Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20 Mage Hand:}{\fs20  5-pound telekinesis.
\par }{\b\fs20 Message:}{\fs20  Whispered conversation at distance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prestidigitation:}{\fs20  Perform minor tricks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Read Magic}{\fs20 : Read scrolls, spellbooks, and magical writing.
\par }{\b\fs20 Resistance:}{\fs20  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 1st-level Mage Spells
\par Burning Hands:}{\fs20  1d4 fire damage/level (max 5d4).
\par }{\b\fs20 Cause Fear:}{\fs20  One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20 Change Self: }{\fs20 Changes your appearance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Comprehend Languages:}{\fs20  Understands all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20 Feather Fall: }{\fs20 Objects or creatures fall slowly.
\par }{\b\fs20 Hold Portal: }{\fs20 Holds door shut.
\par }{\b\fs20 Jump:}{\fs20  Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Mage Armor: }{\fs20 Gives subject +4 Defense bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Magic Missile: }{\fs20 1d4+1 damage; +1 missile/two levels above 1st (max 5).
\par }{\b\fs20 Magic Weapon:}{\fs20  Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Power Device:}{\fs20  Powers one inoperative electrical or mechanical device.
\par }{\b\fs20 Ray of Fatigue: }{\fs20 Ray fatigues target.
\par }{\b\fs20 Shield: }{\fs20 Invisible disc gives cover, blocks magic missiles.
\par }{\b\fs20 Sleep: }{\fs20 Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber.
\par }{\b\fs20 True Strike:}{\fs20  Adds +20 bonus to your next attack roll.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 2nd-Level Mage Spells
\par Arcane Lock:}{\fs20  Magically locks a portal or chest.
\par }{\b\fs20 Blur:}{\fs20  Attacks miss subject 20% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Darkvision:}{\fs20  See 60 ft: in total darkness.
\par }{\b\fs20 Enhance Ability:}{\fs20  Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./}{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  
\par }{\b\fs20 Glitterdust:}{\fs20  Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Invisibility: }{\fs20 Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Knock:}{\fs20  Opens locked or magically sealed door.
\par }{\b\fs20 Levitate:}{\fs20  Subject moves up and down at your direction.
\par }{\b\fs20 Locate Object:}{\fs20  Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20 Magic Mouth: }{\fs20 Speaks once when triggered.
\par }{\b\fs20 Protection from Arrows/Bullets:}{\fs20  Subject immune to most ranged attacks.
\par }{\b\fs20 Resist Energy:}{\fs20  Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20 See Invisibility:}{\fs20  Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spider Climb: }{\fs20 Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20 Web:}{\fs20  Fills 20-ft.-radius spread with sticky spider webs.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 3rd-level Mage Spells
\par Dispel Magic:}{\fs20  Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\fs20 Displacement: }{\fs20 Attacks miss subject 50% of the time.
\par }{\b\fs20 Fireball:}{\fs20  1d6 damage per level, 20-ft: radius.
\par }{\b\fs20 Flaming Projectiles: }{\fs20 Projectiles deal +1d6 fire damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Greater Magic Weapon: }{\fs20 +1/three levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20 Halt Undead: }{\fs20 Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Haste: }{\fs20 Extra attack action, additional move, and +2 Defense.
\par }{\b\fs20 Hold Person:}{\fs20  Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Invisibility Sphere: }{\fs20 Makes everyone within 10 ft: invisible.
\par }{\b\fs20 Keen Edge: }{\fs20 Doubles normal weapon\rquote s threat range.
\par }{\b\fs20 Lightning Bolt: }{\fs20 Electricity deals 1d6 damage/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Slow: }{\fs20 One subject/level may only move or attack; \endash 2 to Defense, \endash 2 on melee attack and damage rolls, \endash 2 on Reflex saves.
\par }{\b\fs20 Tongues:}{\fs20  Speak any language.
\par }{\b\fs20 Water Breathing: }{\fs20 Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 4th-level Mage Spells
\par Animate Dead: }{\fs20 Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\fs20 Arcane Eye:}{\fs20  Invisible floating eye moves 30 ft./round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bestow Curse:}{\fs20  \endash 6 to an ability; \endash 4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of taking no action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Confusion:}{\fs20  Makes subject behave oddly for 1 round/}{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  
\par }{\b\fs20 Dimension Door:}{\fs20  Teleports you and up to 50 lb./level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Energy Trap:}{\fs20  Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage of given energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20 Fear:}{\fs20  Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Ice Storm: }{\fs20 Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft: across: 
\par }{\b\fs20 Minor Globe of Invulnerability:}{\fs20  Stops 1st- through 3rd-level spell effects.
\par }{\b\fs20 Remove Curse:}{\fs20  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20 Shout:}{\fs20  Deafens all within cone and deals 2d6 damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Stoneskin:}{\fs20  Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Fire:}{\fs20  Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft: and 1d4 out to 20 ft: Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Ice: }{\fs20 Ice plane creates wall with 15 hp +1/level, or hemisphere can trap creatures inside.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 5th-level Mage Spells
\par Cloudkill:}{\fs20  Kills 3 HD or less; 4\endash 6 HD save or die.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cone of Cold:}{\fs20  1d6 cold damage/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Hold Monster:}{\fs20  As hold person, but any creature.
\par }{\b\fs20 Passwall:}{\fs20  Breaches walls 1 ft: thick/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Phantom Watchdog: }{\fs20 Spectral dog can guard or attack.
\par }{\b\fs20 Telekinesis:}{\fs20  Lifts or moves 25 lb./level at long range.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Force: }{\fs20 Wall is immune to damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Iron:}{\fs20  30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Stone: }{\fs20 Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b0 Divine Spells
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 
\par 0-Level Acolyte Spells
\par Create Water:}{\fs20  Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cure Minor Wounds: }{\fs20 Cures 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Detect Magical Aura:}{\fs20  Detects spells, magic items within 60 ft.
\par }{\b\fs20 Inflict Minor Wounds:}{\fs20  Touch attack, 1 point of damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Light:}{\fs20  Object shines like a torch.
\par }{\b\fs20 Read Magic:}{\fs20  Read scrolls and magical writing.
\par }{\b\fs20 Resistance:}{\fs20  Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
\par }{\b\fs20 Virtue: }{\fs20 Subject gains 1 temporary hp.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 1st-level Acolyte Spells
\par Bane:}{\fs20  Enemies suffer \endash 1 attack, \endash 1 on saves against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bless:}{\fs20  Allies gain +1 attack and +1 on saves against fear.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cause Fear:}{\fs20  One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
\par }{\b\fs20 Command: }{\fs20 One subject obeys one-word command for 1 round.
\par }{\b\fs20 Comprehend Languages: }{\fs20 Understand all spoken and written languages.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cure Light Wounds:}{\fs20  Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20 Inflict Light Wounds:}{\fs20  Touch, 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20 Magic Weapon:}{\fs20  Weapon gains +1 bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 Remove Fear: }{\fs20 +4 on saves against fear for one subject + one additional subject/four levels.
\par }{\b\fs20 Shield of Faith:}{\fs20  Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 2nd-Level Acolyte Spells
\par Aid: }{\fs20 +1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hit points.
\par }{\b\fs20 Augury: }{\fs20 Learn whether an action will be good or bad.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cure Moderate Wounds: }{\fs20 Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Delay Poison: }{\fs20 Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Enhance Ability:}{\fs20  Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Hold Person: }{\fs20 Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Inflict Moderate Wounds:}{\fs20  Touch attack, 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Lesser Restoration:}{\fs20  Dispels magic ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Remove Paralysis: }{\fs20 Frees one or more creatures from paralysis, hold, or slow.
\par }{\b\fs20 Resist Energy: }{\fs20 Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
\par }{\b\fs20 Shatter: }{\fs20 Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Silence: }{\fs20 Negates sound in 15-ft: radius.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spider Climb:}{\fs20  Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
\par }{\b\fs20 Zone of Truth: }{\fs20 Subjects within range cannot lie.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 3rd-level Acolyte Spells
\par Animate Dead: }{\fs20 Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bestow Curse: }{\fs20 \endash 6 to an ability; \endash 4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action.
\par }{\b\fs20 Cure Serious Wounds: }{\fs20 Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Dispel Magic: }{\fs20 Cancels magical spells and effects.
\par }{\b\fs20 Glyph of Warding:}{\fs20  Inscription harms those who pass it.
\par }{\b\fs20 Inflict Serious Wounds:}{\fs20  Touch attack, 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Locate Object:}{\fs20  Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
\par }{\b\fs20 Prayer:}{\fs20  Allies gain +1 on most rolls, and enemies suffer \endash 1.
\par }{\b\fs20 Remove Curse:}{\fs20  Frees object or person from curse.
\par }{\b\fs20 Remove Disease:}{\fs20  Cures all diseases affecting subject.
\par }{\b\fs20 Searing Light:}{\fs20  Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead.
\par }{\b\fs20 Status:}{\fs20  Monitors condition and position of one ally per 3 caster levels.
\par }{\b\fs20 Water Breathing:}{\fs20  Subjects can breathe underwater.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20 4th-level Acolyte Spells
\par Cure Critical Wounds:}{\fs20  Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Discern Lies:}{\fs20  Reveals deliberate falsehoods.
\par }{\b\fs20 Faith\rquote s Fury:}{\fs20  Damages and blinds creatures with a specific allegiance.
\par }{\b\fs20 Freedom of Movement: }{\fs20 Subject moves normally despite impediments.
\par }{\b\fs20 Greater Magic Weapon: }{\fs20 +1 bonus/three levels (max +5).
\par }{\b\fs20 Inflict Critical Wounds:}{\fs20  Touch attack, 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par }{\b\fs20 Neutralize Poison:}{\fs20  Detoxifies venom in or on subject.
\par }{\b\fs20 Restoration: }{\fs20 Restores level and ability score drains.
\par }{\b\fs20 Tongues:}{\fs20  Speak any language.
\par }{\b\fs20 
\par 5th-level Acolyte Spells
\par Break Enchantment:}{\fs20  Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
\par }{\b\fs20 Flaming Wrath:}{\fs20  Smites foes with fire (1d6/level).
\par }{\b\fs20 Greater Command:}{\fs20  As command, but affects one subject/level.
\par }{\b\fs20 Insect Plague:}{\fs20  Insect horde limits vision, inflicts damage, and weak creatures flee.
\par }{\b\fs20 Mass Cure Light Wounds: }{\fs20 Cures 1d8 +1/level damage for many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Mass Inflict Light Wounds: }{\fs20 Deals 1d8 +1/level damage to many creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Raise Dead: }{\fs20 Restores life to subject who died up to 1 day/level ago.
\par }{\b\fs20 True Seeing: }{\fs20 See all things as they really are.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wall of Stone: }{\fs20 Creates a stone wall that can be shaped: Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Spell Descriptions
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 The spells herein are presented in alphabetical order.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Aid
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Living creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Aid}{\fs20  grants the target a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and saves against fear effects, plus a number of temporary hit points equal to 1d8 +1 per caster level (maximum 1d8+10 temporary hit points).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Animate Dead
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy [Evil]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3, Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One or more corpses touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell turns the bones or bodies of dead creatures into undead skeletons or zombies that follow the caster\rquote s spoken commands. The skeletons or zombies can follow the caster, or can rem
ain in an area and attack any creature (or just a specific type of creature) entering the place. The undead remain animated until they are destroyed. (A destroyed skeleton or zombie can\rquote t be animated again.)
\par Regardless of the type of undead, a caster can\rquote t create more HD of undead than twice his or her caster level with a single casting of }{\cs27\fs20 animate dead}{\fs20 .
\par The undead created remain under caster\rquote s control indefinitely. No matter how many times the caster uses this spell, however, he or she can control only 4 HD
 worth of undead creatures per caster level. If the caster exceeds this number, all the newly created creatures fall under his or her control, and any excess undead from previous castings become uncontrolled (the caster chooses which creatures are release
d). Any undead the character commands (if the character has the ability to command or rebuke undead) do not count toward the limit.
\par Skeletons: A skeleton can be created only from a mostly intact corpse or skeleton; the corpse must have bones. If a skeleton 
is made from a corpse, the flesh falls off the bones. The statistics for a skeleton depend on its size; they do not depend on what abilities the creature may have had while alive.
\par Zombies: A zombie can be created only from a mostly intact corpse; the creature must have a true anatomy. The statistics for a zombie depend on its size, not on what abilities the creature may have had while alive.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 15 + 1 per 2 HD of the undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Arcane Eye
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  10 minutes; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Unlimited; }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Magical sensor; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster creates an invisible magical sensor that sends him or her visual information. The caster can create the }{\cs27\fs20 arcane eye}{\fs20  at any point he or she can see, but it can then travel outside the caster\rquote 
s line of sight without hindrance. The }{\cs27\fs20 arcane eye}{\fs20  travels 30 feet per round (300 feet per minute) if viewing an area ahead primarily looking at the floor or 10 feet per
 round (100 feet per minute) if examining the ceiling and walls as well as the floor ahead. The }{\cs27\fs20 arcane eye}{\fs20  sees exactly as the caster would see if he or she were there. The }{\cs27\fs20 arcane eye}{\fs20 
 can travel in any direction as long as the spell lasts. Solid barriers prevent the passage of an }{\cs27\fs20 arcane eye}{\fs20 , although it can pass through a space no smaller than 1 inch in diameter.
\par The caster must concentrate to use the eye. If the caster does not concentrate, the eye is inert until the caster again concentrates.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Arcane Lock
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One door, cabinet, chest, or portal touched, up to 30 sq. ft./level in size; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Permanent; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par An }{\cs27\fs20 arcane lock}{\fs20  spell cast upon a door, cabinet, chest, or portal magically locks it. The caster can freely pass his or her own lock without affecting it; otherwise, a door or object secured with }{\cs27\fs20 arcane lock}{\fs20 
 can be opened only by breaking in or by a successful }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20  or }{\cs27\fs20 knock}{\fs20  spell. Add +10 to the normal DC to break open a door or portal affected by this spell. Note that a }{\cs27\fs20 knock}{\fs20 
 spell does not remove an }{\cs27\fs20 arcane lock}{\fs20 . It only suppresses it for 10 minutes.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20 Purchase DC 15.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Augury
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous
\par An }{\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20  can tell the caster whether a particular action will bring good or bad results for him or her in the immediate future. 
\par The base chance 
for receiving a meaningful reply is 70% + 1% per caster level; the GM makes the roll secretly. The GM may determine that the question is so straightforward that a successful result is automatic, or so vague as to have no chance of success. If the }{
\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20  succeeds, the caster gets one of four results:
\par \'93Weal\'94 (if the action will probably bring good results).
\par \'93Woe\'94 (for bad results).
\par \'93Weal and woe\'94 (for both).
\par \'93Nothing\'94 (for actions that don\rquote t have especially good or bad results).
\par If the spell fails, the caster gets the \'93nothing\'94 result. A divine caster who gets the \'93nothing\'94 result has no way to tell whether it was the consequence of a failed or successful }{\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20 .
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20  can see into the future only about half an hour, so anything that might happen after that does not affect the }{\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20 .  All }{\cs27\fs20 augury }{\fs20 
spells cast by the same person about the same topic use the same result as the first }{\cs27\fs20 augury}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Bane
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  50 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  All enemies within 50 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par }{\cs27\fs20 The caster\rquote s enemies}{\fs20  suffer a \endash 1 penalty on their attack rolls and a \endash 1 penalty on saving throws against fear effects.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Bane}{\fs20  counters and dispels }{\cs27\fs20 bless}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Bestow Curse
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3, Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Permanent; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster places a curse on the creature touched. The caster chooses one of the three following effects, depending on the version selected:
\par \endash 6 penalty to an ability score (minimum score of 1).
\par \endash 4 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, and skill checks.
\par Each turn, the target has a 50% chance to act normally; otherwise, he or she takes no action.
\par A character may also invent his or her own curse, but it should be no more powerful than those described above, and the GM has final say on the curse\rquote s effect.
\par The curse cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed with a }{\cs27\fs20 break enchantment}{\fs20  or }{\cs27\fs20 remove curse }{\fs20 spell.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Bestow curse}{\fs20  counters }{\cs27\fs20 remove curse}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Bless
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  50 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  All allies within 50 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 The caster\rquote s allies}{\fs20  gain a morale bonus of +1 on their attack rolls and a morale bonus of +1 on saving throws against fear effects.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Bless}{\fs20  counters and dispels }{\cs27\fs20 bane}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Blur
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:
}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject\rquote s outline appears blurred, shifting and wavering. This distortion grants the subject one-half concealment (20% miss chance).
\par A }{\cs27\fs20 see invisibility}{\fs20  spell does not counteract the }{\cs27\fs20 blur}{\fs20  effect, but a }{\cs27\fs20 true seeing}{\fs20  spell does. Opponents who cannot see the subject ignore the spell\rquote s effect.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Break Enchantment
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  1 minute; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target or Targets:}{\fs20  Up to one creature per level, all within 30 ft. of each other; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell R
esistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell frees creatures from enchantments, transmutations, curses, and petrification (as well as other magical transformations). }{\cs27\fs20 Break enchantment}{\fs20 
 can reverse even an instantaneous effect. For each such effect, the caster makes a check of 
1d20 + caster level (maximum +10) against a DC of 11 + caster level of the effect. Success means that the creature is free of the spell, curse, or effect. For cursed magic items, the DC is 25.
\par If the effect comes from some permanent magic item }{\cs27\fs20 break enchantment}{\fs20  does not remove the curse from the item but merely frees the victim from the item\rquote s effects, leaving the item cursed. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Burning Hands
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Fire]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  10 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Semicircular burst of flames 10 ft. long, centered on your hands; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par A thin sheet of flame shoots from the caster\rquote s outspread fingertips. The caster must hold his or her hands with the thumbs touching and fingers spread. The sheet of flame is about as thick as the caster\rquote 
s thumbs. Any creature in the area of the flames takes 1d4 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 5d4). Flammable materials such as cloth, paper, parchment, and thin wood b
urn if the flames touch them. A character can extinguish burning items as a full-round action.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cause Fear
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1, Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One living creature; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1d4 rounds; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The affected creature suffers a \endash 2 morale penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, and saving throws. It flees from the caster as well as it can. If unable to flee, the creature may fight. Creatures with 6 or more Hit Dice are immune. }{
\cs27\fs20 Cause fear }{\fs20 counters }{\cs27\fs20 remove fear}{\fs20 .
\par }{\b\fs20 Note:}{\fs20  Mind-affecting spells do not affect nonintelligent creatures, and fear spells do not affect undead.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Change Self
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level (D)
\par The caster can make him or herself\emdash including clothing, armor, weapons, and equipment\emdash look different. The caster can seem 1 foot shorter or taller
, thin, fat, or in between. The caster cannot change body type. Otherwise, the changes can be as minor or as major as the caster desires.
\par The spell does not provide the abilities or mannerisms of the chosen form. It does not alter the perceived tactile (touch) or audible (sound) properties of the caster or his or her equipment.
\par If a character uses this spell to create a disguise, he or she gets a +10 bonus on the Disguise check.
\par }{\b\fs20 Note:}{\fs20  Creatures get a Will save to recognize the illusion if they interact with it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cloudkill
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Cloud spreads 30 ft. wide and 20 ft. high; }{\b\fs20 
Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par A bank of yellowish green poisonous fog billows out from the point the character designates. The fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 5 feet has one-half concealment (attacks suffer a 20% miss chance). Crea
tures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker can\rquote t use sight to locate the target). The fog\rquote 
s vapors kill any living creature with 3 or fewer HD (no save) and cause creatures with 4 to 6 HD to make Fortitude saving throws or
 die. Living creatures above 6 HD, and creatures of 4 to 6 HD who make their saving throws, take 1d10 points of poison damage each round while in the cloud. Holding one\rquote s breath doesn\rquote t help. 
\par The cloudkill moves away from the character at 10 feet per round, rolling along the surface of the ground. (Figure out the cloud\rquote 
s new spread each round based on its new point of origin, 10 feet farther away from the point of origin where the character cast the spell.) Because the vapors are heavier than air, they sin
k to the lowest level of the land, even pouring down openings. It cannot penetrate liquids, nor can it be cast underwater.
\par A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Command
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One living creature; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster gives the subject a single command, which he or she obeys to the best of his or her ability at his or her earliest opportunity. The caster may select from the following options.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Approach:}{\fs20  On the subject\rquote s turn, the subject moves toward the caster as quickly and dir
ectly as possible for 1 round. The subject may do nothing but move during his or her turn, and he or she incurs attacks of opportunity for this movement as normal.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Drop: }{\fs20 On the subject\rquote s turn, he or she drops whatever he or she is holding. The subject can\rquote t pick up any dropped item until his or her next turn.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Fall:}{\fs20  The subject immediately falls to the ground and remains prone for 1 round. He or she may act normally while prone, but takes any appropriate penalties.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Flee: }{\fs20 On the subject\rquote s turn, he or she moves away from the caster as quickly as possible for 1 round. The subject may do nothing but move during his or her turn.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Halt:}{\fs20  The subject stands in place for 1 round. The subject may not take any actions, but may defend him or herself normally.
\par If the subject can\rquote t carry out the caster\rquote s command on his or her next turn, the spell automatically fails.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Comprehend Languages
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1, Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level
\par The caster can understand words spoken or written in a language he or she does not know (including the unique languages of some creatures). In either case, the caster must touch the speaker or the writing. Note that the ability to read does not ne
cessarily impart insight into the material, merely its literal meaning. The spell enables the caster to understand or read an unknown language, not speak or write it.
\par Written material can be read at the rate of one page (250 words) per minute. Magical writ
ing cannot be read, other than to know it is magical. This spell can be foiled by certain warding magic. It does not decipher codes or reveal messages concealed in otherwise normal text.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cone of Cold
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Cold]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cone; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Cone of cold}{\fs20  creates an area of extreme cold, originating at the caster\rquote s hand and extending outward in a cone. It drains heat, causing 1d6 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Confusion
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  All creatures in a 15-ft. radius; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par Creatures affected by this spell behave randomly, as indicated on the following table.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b\fs20 d10 Roll\cell Behavior\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1\cell Wander away for 1 minute (unless prevented)\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4707\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 2\endash 6\cell Do nothing for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4707\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 7\endash 9\cell Attack nearest creature for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 10\cell Act normally for 1 round\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4707\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par Except on a result of 1, roll again each round on the creature\rquote s turn to see what the subject does in that round. Wandering creatures leave the scene as if disi
nterested. Attackers are not at any special advantage when attacking them. Any confused creature who is attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next turn.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Create Water
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Up to 2 gallons of water/level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}
{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell generates wholesome, drinkable water, just like clean rainwater. Water can be created in an area as small as will actually contain the liquid, or in an area three times as large.
\par }{\b\fs20 Note:}{\fs20  This spell cannot create water within a creature. Water weighs about 8 pounds per gallon. One cubic foot of water contains rough\-ly 8 gallons and weighs about 60 pounds.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cure Critical Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless) (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cure Light Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Sa
ving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless) (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +5).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cure Minor Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless) (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 1 point of damage..
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 
\par Cure Moderate Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless) (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Cure Serious Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless) (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Darkvision
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)

\par The subject gains the ability to see 60 feet even in total darkness. Darkvision is black and white only but otherwise like normal sight. Darkvision does not grant the ability to see in magical darkness.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Daze
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One person; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par This enchantment clouds the mi
nd of a humanoid of Medium-size or smaller so that he takes no actions. Humanoids of 5 or more HD are not affected. The dazed subject is not stunned (so attackers get no special advantage against him or her), but the subject can\rquote 
t move, cast spells, use mental abilities, or perform any other actions requiring awareness or concentration.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Delay Poison
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20 Savi
ng Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject becomes temporarily immune to poison. Any poison in the subject\rquote s system, or any poison the subject is exposed to during the spell\rquote s duration, does not affect the subject until the spell has expired. }{\cs27\fs20 Delay poison}{
\fs20  does not cure any damage that a poison may have already dealt.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Detect Magical Aura
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0, Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  60 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Quarter-circle emanating from you to the extreme of the range; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Concentration, up to 1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{
\fs20  No
\par The caster can detect magical auras. The amount of information revealed depends on how long the caster studies a particular area or subject.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 1st Round:}{\fs20  Presence or absence of magical auras.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 2nd Round:}{\fs20  Number of different magical auras and the strength of the strongest aura.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 3rd Round:}{\fs20  The strength and location of each aura.
\par Magical areas, multiple types of magic, or strong local magical emanations may confuse or conceal weaker auras.
\par Aura Strength:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20 An aura\rquote s magical power and strength depend on a spell\rquote s functioning spell level or an item\rquote s caster level.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Functioning Spell Level\cell }\pard 
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {Item Caster Level\cell Aura Power\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx5296\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 0-level or lingering aura\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Lingering aura\cell Dim\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1st\endash 2nd\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 1st\endash 3rd\cell Faint\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 3rd\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 4th\endash 5th\cell Moderate\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 4th\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 6th\endash 7th\cell Strong\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 5th\cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 8th\endash 10th\cell Overwhelming\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2131\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3880\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx5296\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par If an aura falls into more than one category, }{\cs27\fs20 detect magical aura}{\fs20  indicates the stronger of the two.
\par }{\b\fs20 Length Aura Lingers: }{\fs20 How long a magical aura lingers after the source has vacated the location depends on the aura\rquote s original strength.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3225
\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Original Strength\cell Duration\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3225\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3225\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Faint\cell 1d6 minutes}{\strike\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\strike\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3225\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Moderate \cell 1d6 x 10 minutes}{\strike\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\strike\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3225\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Strong\cell 1d6 hours}{\strike\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\strike\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3225\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3225\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\fs20 Overwhelming\cell 1d6 days}{\strike\fs20 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\strike\fs20 \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1625\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3225\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par Each round, the caster can turn to detect things in a new area. The spell can penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Dimension Door
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Teleporting)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20 
 You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 50 lb./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None and Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No and Yes (object)

\par The caster instantly transfers him or herself from his or her current location to any other spot within range. The caster always arrives at exactly the spot desired\emdash 
whether by simply visualizing the area or by stating direction.  After using this spell, the caster can\rquote t take any other actions until his or her next turn.
\par If the caster arrives in a place that is already occupied by a solid body, he or she is transported to a random open space on a suitable surface within 100 feet of the intended location. If there i
s no free space within 100 feet, the caster appears in a free space within 1,000 feet. If there\rquote s no free space within 1,000 feet, the spell fails and the caster remains where he or she is.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Discern Lies
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Concentration, up to 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20 
 Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par Each round, the c
aster concentrates on one subject, who must be in range. The caster knows if the subject deliberately and knowingly speaks a lie. The spell does not reveal the truth, uncover unintentional inaccuracies, or necessarily reveal evasions. Each round, the cast
er may concentrate on a different subject.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Dispel Magic
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3, Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target or }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  One spellcaster, creature, or object; or 30-ft.-radius burst; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 
Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par A caster can use }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20  to end ongoing spells that have been cast on a creature or object, to temporarily suppress the magical abilities of a magic item, to end ongoing spells (or at
 least their effects) within an area. A dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. }{\cs27\fs20 Dispel magic}{\fs20  can dispel (but not counter) the ongoing effects of supernatural abilities as well as spells. }{\cs27\fs20 Dispel magic}{\fs20 
 affects spell-like effects just as it affects spells.
\par }{\b\fs20 Note:}{\fs20  The effects of spells with instantaneous duration can\rquote t be dispelled, because the magical effect is already over before the }{\cs27\fs20 dispel}{\fs20  }{\cs27\fs20 magic}{\fs20  can take effect.
\par The caster chooses to use }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20  in one of two ways: a targeted dispel or an area dispel:
\par }{\b\fs20 Targeted Dispel:}{\fs20 
 One object, creature, or spell is the target of the spell. The caster makes a dispel check against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in effect on the object or creature. A dispel check is 1d20 +1 per caster level
 (maximum +10) against a DC of 11 + the spell\rquote s caster level.
\par }\pard\plain \s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
If the spellcaster targets an object or creature that is the effect of an ongoing spell, he or she makes a dispel check to end the spell.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 If the object that is targeted is a magic item, the caster makes a dispel check against the item\rquote 
s caster level. If the caster succeeds, all the item\rquote s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. The item\rquote 
s physical properties are unchanged: 
\par A caster automatically succeeds on his or her dispel check against any spell that he or she cast.
\par }{\b\fs20 Area Dispel:}{\fs20  The spell affects everything within a 30-foot radius.
\par For each creature that is the target of one
 or more spells, the caster makes a dispel check against the spell with the highest caster level. If that fails, the caster makes dispel checks against progressively weaker spells until he or she dispels one spell (which discharges the }{\cs27\fs20 dispel
}{\fs20  so far as that target is concerned) or fails all the checks. The creature\rquote s magic items are not affected.
\par For each object that is the target of one or more spells, the caster make dispel checks as with creatures. Magic items are not affected by area dispels.
\par For each ongoing area or effect spell centered within the }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20 \rquote s area, the caster makes a dispel check to dispel the spell.
\par For each ongoing spell whose area overlaps that of the dispel, the caster makes a dispel check to end the effect, but only within the area of the }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20 .
\par A caster may choose to automatically succeed on dispel checks against any spell that he or she has cast.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Displacement
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject appears to be about 2 feet away from his or her true location. The subject benefits from a 50% miss chance as if he or she had total concealmen
t. However, unlike actual total concealment, displacement does not prevent enemies from targeting the subject normally. }{\cs27\fs20 True seeing}{\fs20  reveals the subject\rquote s true location.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20  Purchase DC 9.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Energy Trap
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  10 minutes; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Object touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Permanent until discharged (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex half (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Energy trap}{\fs20  creates an explosion of one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion) when an intruder opens the item that the trap wards. The }{\cs27\fs20 energy trap}{\fs20 
 can ward any closeable item. When casting }{\cs27\fs20 energy trap}{\fs20 , the caster selects the energy type and a point on the item as the spell\rquote s center. When someone other than th
e caster opens the item, the resulting explosion fills the area within a 5-foot radius around the spell\rquote 
s center. The energy blast deals 1d4 points of damage (of the given energy type) +1 point per caster level. The item protected by the trap is not harmed by this explosion.
\par The warded item cannot have a second closure or warding spell placed on it.
\par An unsuccessful }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20  spell does not detonate the spell.
\par Underwater, the acid and fire versions of this spell deal half damage.
\par The caster can use the trapped object without discharging it, as can any individual to whom the spell was specifically attuned when cast. \'93Attuning\'94 to an individual usually involves denoting a password that the caster can share with friends.
\par A successful Search check (DC 29) finds an }{\cs27\fs20 energy trap}{\fs20 , and a successful Disable Device check (DC 29) safely removes it. 
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Components:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 10.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Enhance Ability
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2, Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The spell grants a temporary +5 enhancement bonus to one ability score (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma) chosen by the caster at the time of casting.
\par A temporary increase to Intelligence or Wisdom does not allow arcane or divine casters to gain extra spells, but the save DCs for their spells increase. A temporary increase in Intelligence doesn\rquote t grant extra skill points.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Faith\rquote s Fury
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  20-ft.-radius burst; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude partial (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster draws upon holy (or unholy) power to smite enemies with one of the following allegiances, as chosen by the caster: chaos, evil, good, or law. The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to creatures with the desig
nated allegiance and blinds them for 1 round. A successful Fortitude saving throw reduces damage to half and negates the blinding effect.
\par The spell does not affect creatures that do not have the chosen allegiance.
\par An outsider with the designated allegiance instead suffers 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).
\par In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have total concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense, grants a +2 bonus on opponents\rquote 
 attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and takes a \endash 4 penalty on Search checks and most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Fear
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cone; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par An invisible cone of terror causes living creatures to become panicked. They suffer a \endash 2 morale penalty on saving throws, and they flee from the caster. A panicked creature has a 50% chance to drop what it\rquote 
s holding, chooses its path randomly (as long as it is getting away from immediate danger), and flees any other dangers that confront it. If cornered, a 
panicked creature cowers. A cowering creature loses its Dexterity bonus, can take no actions, and takes a \endash 2 penalty to its Defense.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Feather Fall
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{
\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  Any free-falling objects or creatures in a 10-ft. radius whose weight does not total more than 300 lb./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Until landing or 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (object)
\par The creatures or objects affected fall slowly. The rate of falling is instantly changed to a mere 60 feet per round, with no damage incurred upon landing while the spell is in effect. However, when the spell duration ceases, a normal rate of fall resumes.

\par The character can cast this spell with an instant utterance, quickly enough to save him or herself if he or she unexpectedly falls. Casting the spell is a free action.
\par This spell has no effect on ranged weapons unless they are falling quite a distance. If the spell is cast on a falling item the item does half normal damage based on weight with no bonus for the height of the drop. 
\par The spell works only upon free-falling objects. It does not affect melee weapon attacks or charging or flying creatures.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Fireball
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  20-ft.-radius spread; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par A }{\cs27\fs20 fireball}{\fs20  spell detonates with a low roar and deals 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to all creatures within the area. Unattended objects also take this damage. The explosion creates no concussive force.

\par The caster points his or her finger and determines the range (distance and height) at which the }{\cs27\fs20 fireball}{\fs20 
 is to burst. A glowing, pea-sized bead streaks from the caster and, unless it impacts upon a material body or solid barrier prior to attaining the prescribed range, bursts into the }{\cs27\fs20 fireball}{\fs20  at that point (an e
arly impact results in an early detonation). If the caster attempts to send the bead through a narrow passage the caster must \'93hit\'94 the opening with a successful ranged touch attack or else the bead strikes the barrier and detonates prematurely.

\par The }{\cs27\fs20 fireball}{\fs20  sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in the area. It can melt metals with a low melting point. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the }{\cs27\fs20 fireball}{\fs20 
 may continue beyond the barrier if the area permits; otherwise it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Flaming Projectiles
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Fire]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  50 projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{
\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster turns ammunition (such as arrows, bolts, bullets, and shuriken) into fiery projectiles. Each projectile deals an extra 1d6 
points of fire damage to any target it hits. The flaming projectiles can easily ignite flammable materials or structures, but won\rquote t ignite creatures struck.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Flaming Wrath
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cylinder (10-ft. radius, 40 ft. high); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par This spell produces a vertical column of divine fire roaring downward. The spell deals 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Freedom of Movement
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20   Personal or touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You or creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/_level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell enables the caster or the creature touched to move and attack normally for the duration of the spell, even under the influence of magic that usually impedes movement.
\par The spell also allows a character to move and attack normally while underwater, even with slashing and bludgeoning weapons, provided that the weapon is wielded in the hand rather than hurled. The }{\cs27\fs20 freedom of movement }{\fs20 
spell does not, however, allow water breathing.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Glitterdust
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Creatures and objects within 10-ft. spread; }{\b\fs20 
Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (blinding only); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par A cloud of particles covers everyone and everything in the area, blinding creatures and visibly outlining invisible things for the duration of the spell. All within the area are covered by the dust, which cannot be removed and continues to 
sparkle until it fades.
\par In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense, grants a +2 bonus on opponents\rquote  attack rolls (they are effective
ly invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a \endash 4 penalty on Search checks and most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Glyph of Warding
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  10 minutes; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; Target or }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Object touched or up to 5 sq. ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Permanent until discharged (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (object)
\par This inscription harms those who enter, pass, or open the warded area or object.  
\par The caster sets the conditions of th
e ward. Typically, any creature entering the warded area or opening the warded object without speaking a pass phrase (which the caster sets when casting the spell) is subject to the magic it stores. Alternatively or in addition to a pass phrase trigger, }
{\cs27\fs20 glyphs of warding}{\fs20  can be set according to physical characteristics or creature type, or species. }{\cs27\fs20 Glyphs}{\fs20  can also be set with respect to allegiance. They cannot be set according to class, Hit Dice, or level. }{
\cs27\fs20 Glyphs}{\fs20  respond to invisible creatures normally. Multiple }{\cs27\fs20 glyphs}{\fs20  cannot be cast on the same area. However, they can ward separate compartments of the same object.
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20  can be placed to conform to any shape up to the limitations of the spell\rquote s total square footage. When the spell is completed, the }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20  becomes nearly invisible.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Glyphs}{\fs20  cannot be affected or bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled. Nonmagical disguises cannot fool a }{\cs27\fs20 glyph of warding}{\fs20 .
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Read magic}{\fs20  allows a character to identify a }{\cs27\fs20 glyph of warding}{\fs20  with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 13). Identifying the }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20 
 does not discharge it and allows the character to know the basic nature of the }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20  (version, type of damage caused, what spell is stored).
\par Detecting the }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20  requires a successful Search check (DC 28), and safely removing it requires a successful Disable Device check (DC 28).
\par Depending on the version selected, a }{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20  either blasts the intruder or activates a spell.
\par }{\b\fs20 Blast Glyph:}{\fs20  A blast deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels to the intruder and to all within 5 feet of the intruder (maximum 5d8). This damage is acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic/concussion (caster\rquote 
s choice, made at time of casting). Those affected can make Reflex saves to take half damage.
\par }{\b\fs20 Spell Glyph: }{\fs20 The caster can store any harmful spell of up to 3rd level that he or she knows. All level-dependent features of the spell are based on the caster\rquote 
s level at the time of casting. If the spell has targets, it targets the intruder. If the spell normally affects an area, the area or effect is centered on the intruder. All saving throws operate as normal, except that the DC is based on the level of the 
}{\cs27\fs20 glyph}{\fs20 .
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20   Purchase DC 15.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Greater Command
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Enchantment [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20 
 One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster gives the subjects a single command, which they obey to the best of their ability at their earliest opportunity. The caster may select from the following options.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Approach:}{\fs20  On the subjects\rquote  turn, the subjects move toward the caster as quickly and directly a
s possible for the duration. The subjects may do nothing but move during their turn, and they incur attacks of opportunity for this movement as normal.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Drop: }{\fs20 On the subjects\rquote  turn, they drop whatever they are holding.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Fall:}{\fs20  The subject immediately falls to the ground and remains prone for the duration. They may act normally while prone, but take any appropriate penalties.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Flee: }{\fs20 On the subjects\rquote  turn, they move away from the caster as quickly as possible for the duration. The subjects may do nothing but move during their turn.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Halt:}{\fs20  The subjects stand in place for the duration. The subjects may not take any actions, but may defend themselves normally.
\par If a subject can\rquote t carry out the caster\rquote s command on his or her next turn, the spell automatically fails for that subject.
\par At the start of each commanded creature\rquote s action after the first, it gets another Will save to attempt to break free from the spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Greater Magic Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4, Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack ac
tion; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One weapon or 50 projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless, object)
\par This spell gives a weapon an enhancement bonus to attack and damage of +1. This bonus increases to +2 at 8th caster level. An enhancement bonus does not stack with a mastercraft weapon\rquote s bonus to attack.
\par Alternatively, the caster can affect up
 to fifty arrows, bolts, or individual bullets, or a single magazine of up to 50 rounds. The projectiles must be of the same type, and they have to be together. Projectiles (but not thrown weapons) lose their transmutation after use.
\par A caster can\rquote t cast this spell on a natural weapon such as an unarmed strike
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Halt Undead
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  Up to three undead, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}
{\fs20  Yes
\par This spell renders up to three undead creatures immobile. Nonintelligent undead get no saving throw; intelligent undead do. If the spell is successful, it renders the undead immobile for the duration of the spell. The effect is broken if the }{\cs27\fs20 
halted}{\fs20  creatures are attacked or take \-damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Haste
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One creature; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creature moves and acts more quickly than normal. This extra speed has several effects.
\par When making a full attack action, the subject may make one extra attack with any weapon he or she is holding. The attack is made using the character\rquote 
s full base attack bonus, plus any modifiers appropriate to the situation. (This benefit does not actually grant an extra action, so a character can\rquote t use it to cast a second spell or otherwise take an extra action in the round.)}{\strike\fs20 

\par }{\fs20 The subject gains a +2 dodge bonus to Defense. Any condition that makes the subject lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense (if any) also makes the subject lose dodge bonuses.}{\strike\fs20 
\par }{\fs20 All of the subject\rquote s modes of movement (including normal movement, burrow, climb, fly, and swim) increase by 30 feet (to a maximum of double the subject\rquote s normal speed).}{\strike\fs20 
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Haste}{\fs20  dispels and counters }{\cs27\fs20 slow.}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Hold Monster
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One living creature; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions (including using psionic powers).
\par A winged creature who is }{\cs27\fs20 held}{\fs20  cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Hold Person
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2, Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One Medium-size or smaller humanoid; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 
Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions (including using psionic powers).
\par A winged creature who is }{\cs27\fs20 held}{\fs20  cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can\rquote t swim and may drown.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Hold Portal
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; Component: V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20 
 Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One portal, up to 20 sq. ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell magically bars a door, gate, window, or shutter of wood, metal, or stone. The magic holds the portal fast, just as if it were securely closed and normally locked. A }{\cs27\fs20 knock}{\fs20  spell or a successful }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{
\fs20  spell can negate the }{\cs27\fs20 hold portal. }{\fs20 For a portal affected by this spell, add 5 to the normal DC for forcing the portal.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Ice Storm
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Cold]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cylinder (20-ft. radius, 40 ft. high); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par Hail falls for one full round, dealing 3d6 points of bludgeoning damage and 2d6 points of cold damage to creatures in their path. Listen checks made within the ice storm\rquote s effect take a \endash 
4 penalty, and all ground movement within its area is at half speed. At the end of the duration, the hail disappears, leaving no aftereffects (other than the damage inflicted).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Inflict Critical Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Inflict Light Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +5).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Inflict Minor Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes 
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 1 point of damage.
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 
\par Inflict Moderate Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Inflict Serious Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
\par Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Insect Plague
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Summoning) [see text]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Full-round action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Cloud of insects 180 ft. in diameter; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par A horde of insects swarm in a thick cloud when this spell is cast. The insects limit vision to 10 feet, and spellcasting within the cloud is impossible. Creatures inside the }{\cs27\fs20 insect plague}{\fs20 
, regardless of Defense, sustain 1 point of damage at the end of each round they remain within, due to the bites and stings of the insects. Invisibility is no protection. All creatures with 2 or fewer HD are driven from the clo
ud at their fastest possible speed in a random direction and flee until they are at least 100 feet away from the insects. Creatures with 3 to 5 HD flee as well, though a Will save negates this effect. (This urge to flee is an extra\-ordinary fear effect.)

\par H
eavy smoke drives off insects within its bounds. Fire also drives insects away.  The insects return as soon as the fire is extinguished.  A single torch is ineffective against this vast horde of insects. Lightning, cold, and ice are likewise ineffective, 
while a strong wind (21+ mph) that covers the entire }{\cs27\fs20 plague}{\fs20  area disperses the insects and ends the spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Invisibility
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal or touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You or a creature or object weighing no more than 100 lb./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20 
 Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
\par The creature or object touched vanishes from sight, even
 from darkvision. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. If the caster casts the spell on someone else, neither the caster nor his or her allies can see the subject, unless they can normally see invisible things or employ ma
gic to do so.
\par Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so. Any part of an it
em that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible.
\par The subject is not magically }{\cs27\fs20 silenced,}{\fs20  and certain other conditions can render the recipient detectable. The spell ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this spell, an \'93attack\'94
 includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character\rquote s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm ind
irectly is not an attack. If the subject attacks directly, however, it immediately becomes visible along with all its gear. Note that spells that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in thei
r area.
\par An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Pinpointing the location of an invisible character who isn\rquote 
t attempting to hide requires a Spot check against DC 40 if immobile or DC 20 if moving.
\par 
\par }{Invisibility Sphere
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal or touch; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  10-ft.-radius sphere around the creature or object touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (har
mless) or Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
\par All creatures within 10 feet of the recipient, including the recipient, vanish from sight, even from darkvision.  The center of the effect is mobile with 
the recipient.  If the creatures are carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. Those affected by this spell cannot see each other but can see themselves. Any affected creature moving out of the area becomes visible, but creatures moving into the area after t
h
e spell is cast do not become invisible.  Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a source of light ca
n become so. Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet beyond the range of the spell becomes visible.
\par The subjects are not magically }{\cs27\fs20 silenced,}{\fs20  and certain other conditions can render a recipient detectable. Affected cre
atures (other than the recipient) who attack negate the invisibility only for themselves. If the spell recipient attacks, the }{\cs27\fs20 invisibility sphere}{\fs20  ends.  For purposes of this spell, an \'93attack\'94
 includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character\rquote 
s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If a subject attacks directly, however, it immediately becomes vis
ible along with all its gear. Note that spells that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
\par An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Pinpointing the location of an invisible character who isn\rquote 
t attempting to hide requires a Spot check against DC 40 if immobile or DC 20 if moving.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Jump
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The subject gets an enhancement bonus on Jump checks. The enhancement bonus is +10 at 1st level, +20 at 3rd level, and +30 at 5th level (the maximum).
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Keen Edge}{\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One weapon or 50 projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20 
 Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless, object)
\par This transmutation doubles the threat range of the weapon. A threat range of 20 becomes 19\endash 20. A threat range of 19\endash 20 becomes 17\endash 20. A threat range of 18\endash 20 becomes 15\endash 
20. The spell can be cast only on piercing or slashing weapons (and it does not stack with itself). If cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the }{\cs27\fs20 keen edge}{\fs20  on a particular projectile ends after one use, whether or not the mis
sile strikes its intended target.
\par This spell cannot be cast on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Knock
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:
}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous (see text); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{
\fs20  No
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 knock}{\fs20  spell opens stuck, barred, locked, or magically held or sealed doors. It opens secret doors, as well as locked or trick-openi
ng boxes or chests. It also loosens welds, shackles, or chains (provided they serve to hold closures shut). In all other cases, the door does not relock itself or become stuck again on its own. }{\cs27\fs20 Knock}{\fs20 
 does not raise barred gates or similar impediments, nor does it affect ropes, vines, and the like. Note that the effect is limited by the area.  Each spell can undo up to two means of preventing egress. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Lesser Restoration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  3 rounds; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Lesser restoration }{\fs20 dispels any magical effects reducing one of the subject\rquote s ability scores or cures 1d4 points of temporary ability damage to one of the subject\rquote 
s ability scores. It does not restore permanent ability drain.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Levitate
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal or close (25 ft.+ 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{
\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par A creature must be willing to be }{\cs27\fs20 levitated}{\fs20 , and an object must be unattended or possessed by a willing creature. The
 caster can mentally direct the subject to move up or down as much as 20 feet each round; doing so is a move-equivalent action. The caster cannot move the recipient horizontally, but the subject could push or pull his or her way provided there is a surfac
e to grasp (generally at half its base speed).
\par A levitating creature that attacks with a melee or ranged weapon finds itself increasingly unstable; the first attack is made with a \endash 1 penalty, the second \endash 2, and so on, up to a maximum penalty of \endash 5. A full r
ound spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again at \endash 1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Light
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Light]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0, Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Object touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell causes an object to glow, shedding light in a 20-foot radius from the point the caster touches. The effect is immobile, but it can be cast on a movable object. Light taken into an area of magical }{\cs27\fs20 darkness}{\fs20  does not function.

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Lightning Bolt
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Electricity]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) or 50 ft. + 5 ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  5 ft. wide to medium range (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); or 10 ft. wide to 50 ft. + 5 ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:
}{\fs20  Reflex half; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster releases a bolt of electrical energy that deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to each creature within its area. The bolt begins at the caster. The }{\cs27\fs20 lightning bolt}{\fs20 
 sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in its path. It can melt metals with a low melting point. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the bolt may continue beyond the \-barrier if the spell\rquote 
s range permits; otherwise, it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Locate Object
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Circle, centered on you, with a radius of 400 ft. + 40 ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{
\fs20  No
\par The caster senses the direction of a well-known or clearly visualized object.  The caster can search for general items, in which case the caster
 locates the nearest one of its type if more than one is within range. Attempting to find a specific item requires a specific and accurate mental image; if the image is not close enough to the actual object, the spell fails. The caster cannot specify a un
ique object unless he or she has observed that particular item firsthand (not through divination).
\par The spell is blocked by even a thin sheet of lead. Creatures cannot be found by this spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Mage Armor
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Conjuration (Creation) [Force]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par An invisible but tangible field of force surrounds the subject of }{\cs27\fs20 mage armor,}{\fs20  providing a +4 equipment bonus to Defense. Unlike mundane armor, }{\cs27\fs20 mage armor}{\fs20 
 carries no armor penalty, maximum Dexterity bonus, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Mage Hand
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Nonmagical, unattended object weighing up to 5 lb.; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Concentration; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster can lift an object and move it at will from a distance. As a move action, the caster can move the object up to 15 feet in any direction, though the spell ends if the distance between the caster and the object ever exceeds the spell\rquote 
s range. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Magic Missile
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  Up to five creatures, no two of which can be more than 15 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{
\fs20  Yes
\par A missile of magical energy shoots from the caster and unerringly strikes its target, dealing 1d4+1 points of damage.
\par The missile strikes unerringly, even if the target is in melee or has anything less than total cover or concealment. Specific parts of a creature can\rquote t be singled out. In\-an\-imate objects are not damaged by the spell.
\par For every two levels of experience past 1st, the caster gains an additional missile. He or she has two at 3rd level, three at 5th level, four at 7th level, and the maximum of five missiles at 9th level. If the caster shoots multiple m
issiles, they can be targeted at a single creature or several creatures. A single missile can strike only one creature. The caster must designate targets before rolling for spell resistance or roll damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Magic Mouth
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One creature or object; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Permanent until discharged; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20 
 Yes (object)
\par This spell imbues the target with an ench
anted mouth that suddenly appears and speaks its message the next time a specified event occurs. The message, which must be twenty-five or fewer words long, can be in any language known by the caster and can be delivered over a period of 10 minutes. The m
outh cannot speak verbal components, use command words, or activate magical effects. 
\par The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to the caster\rquote s command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or as detailed as desired, alt
hough only visual and audible triggers can be used.  Triggers react to what appears to be the case. Disguises and illusions can fool them. Normal darkness does not defeat a visual trigger, but magical }{\cs27\fs20 darkness}{\fs20  or }{\cs27\fs20 
invisibility}{\fs20  does. Silent movement or magical }{\cs27\fs20 silence}{\fs20 
 defeats an audible trigger. Audible triggers can be keyed to general types of noises or to a specific noise or spoken word. Actions can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible. A }{\cs27\fs20 magic mouth}{\fs20 
 cannot distinguish allegiance, level, HD, or class except by external garb.
\par The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per caster level. Regardless of range, the mouth can respond only to visible or audible triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 12.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Magic Weapon
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1, Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Weapon touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless, ob
ject)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Magic weapon}{\fs20  gives a weapon a +1 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls.
\par This spell cannot be cast on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Mass Cure Light Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20 
 One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par Positive energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, curing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level to nearby living allies.
\par M}{\cs27\fs20 ass cure light wounds}{\fs20  deals damage to undead in its area rather than curing them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Mass Inflict Light Wounds
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will half (harmless); }{\b\fs20 
Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par Negative energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, dealing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level to nearby living enemies.
\par M}{\cs27\fs20 ass inflict light wounds}{\fs20  heals undead in its area rather than damaging them.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Message
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Language-Dependent]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One creature/level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster can whisper messages a
nd receive whispered replies with little chance of being overheard. The caster designates each creature to be included in the spell effect. When the caster whispers, the whispered message is audible to all of the targeted creatures who are within range. M
agical }{\cs27\fs20 silence}{\fs20 
, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal (or a thin sheet of lead), or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks the spell. The message, however, does not have to travel in a straight line. It can circumvent a barrier if there is an open path between the
 caster and the subject, and the path\rquote s entire length lies within the spell\rquote s range. The creatures who receive the message can whisper a reply that the caster hears. The spell transmits sound, not meaning. It doesn\rquote 
t transcend language barriers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Minor Globe of Invulnerability
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  10 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on you; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par An immobile, faintly shim\-mering magical sphere surrounds the caster and excludes all spell effects of 3rd level and lower. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the }{\cs27\fs20 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20 
. Such spells fail to affect any target located wi
thin the globe. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from objects. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the magical globe. Spells of 4th level and higher are not affected by the globe. The globe can be br
ought down by a targeted }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic }{\fs20 spell, but not by an area }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic. }{\fs20 The caster can leave and return to the globe without penalty.
\par Note that spell effects are not disrupted unless their effects enter the globe}{\fs20\ul ,}{\fs20  and even then they are merely suppressed, not dispelled. 
\par If a given spell has more than one level depending on which character class is casting it, use the level appropriate to the caster to determine whether }{\cs27\fs20 minor globe of invulnerability}{\fs20  stops it.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Neutralize Poison
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature or object of up to 1 cu. ft./level touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:
}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless, object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless, object)
\par The caster detoxifies any sort of venom in the creature or object touched. A poisoned creature suffers no additional damage or effects from the poison, and any temporary effects are ended, but the spell does not reverse instantaneous effects, such as 
hit point damage, temporary ability damage, or effects that don\rquote t go away on their own.
\par The creature is immune to any poison it is exposed to during the duration of the spell. Unlike with }{\cs27\fs20 delay poison}{\fs20 , such effects aren\rquote t postponed until after the duration\emdash 
the creature is simply immune to all poison effects for the length of the spell.
\par This spell can instead neutralize the poison in a poisonous creature or object for the duration of the spell, at the caster\rquote s option.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Passwall
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  5-ft.-by-8 ft. opening, 1 ft./level deep; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster creates a passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, but not through metal or other harder materials. If the wall\rquote s thickness is more than 1 foot per caster level, then a single }{\cs27\fs20 passwall}{\fs20 
 simply makes a niche or short tunnel. Several }{\cs27\fs20 passwall}{\fs20  spells can then form a continuing passage to breach very thick walls. When }{\cs27\fs20 passwall}{\fs20 
 ends, creatures within the passage are ejected out the nearest exit. If someone dispels the }{\cs27\fs20 passwall}{\fs20  or the caster dismisses it, creatures in the passage are ejected out the far exit if there is one or out the sole ex
it if there is only one.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Phantom Watchdog
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Phantom watchdog; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20 
 1 hour/caster level or until discharged, then 1 round/caster level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster conjures up a spectral watchdog that is invisible to everyone but the caster. It then guards the area where it was conjured. The }{\cs27\fs20 phantom watchdog}{\fs20  immediately starts barking loudly if an
y Small or larger creature approaches within 30 feet of it. (Those already within 30 feet of the hound when it is conjured may move about in the area, but if they leave and return, they activate the barking.) The hound sees invisible creatures but does no
t perceive illusions. It is stationary.
\par If an intruder approaches to within 5 feet of the watchdog, the dog stops barking and delivers a vicious bite (+10 bonus on its attack roll, 2d6+3 points of piercing damage) once per round. The dog also gets the bonus
es appropriate to an invisible creature. (For most defenders, the invisible creature gets a +2 bonus on attack rolls and the defender loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense.) The dog is considered to have readied an action to bite an intruder, so it deliver
s its first bite on the in\-truder\rquote s turn. Its bite is the equivalent of a +3 weapon for purposes of damage reduction. The hound cannot be attacked, but it can be dispelled.
\par The spell lasts for 1 hour per caster level, but once the hound begins barking, it lasts for only 1 round per caster level. If the caster is ever more than 100 feet distant from the watchdog, the spell ends.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20 Purchase DC 3 for the lot.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Power Device
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Powers one electrical or mechanical device; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell provides power to an electrical or mechanical device that does not have a power source but is otherwise functional.  The device functions exactly as it normally would if it had conventional power.
\par This spell can affect any household or handheld device, scratch-built robot, or general-purpose vehicle. Larger or more intricate devices cannot be powered with this spell.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Prayer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  30 ft.; }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  All allies and foes within a 30-ft.-radius burst centered on you; }{
\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster brings special favor upon him or herself and allies while bringing disfavor to his or her enemies. The caster and allies gain a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saves, and skill checks, while foes take a \endash 
1 penalty on such rolls.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Prestidigitation
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  10 ft.; Target, Effect, or }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par Once cast, the }{\cs27\fs20 prestidigitation}{\fs20  spell enab
les the caster to perform simple magical effects for 1 hour. The effects are minor and have severe limitations. Prestidigitations can slowly lift 1 pound of material. They can color, clean, or soil items in a 1-foot cube each round. They can chill, warm, 
or flavor 1 pound of nonliving material. They cannot deal damage or affect the concentration of spellcasters. }{\cs27\fs20 Prestidigitation}{\fs20  can create small objects, but they look crude and artificial. The materials created by a }{\cs27\fs20 
prestidigitation}{\fs20  spell are extremely fragile, and they cannot be used as tools, weapons, or spell components. Finally, a }{\cs27\fs20 prestidigitation}{\fs20 
 spell lacks the power to duplicate any other spell effects. Any actual change to an object (beyond just moving, cleaning, or soiling it) persists only 1 hour.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Protection from Arrows/Bullets
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level or until discharged; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The warded creature gains resistance to ranged weapons that fire arrows, bullets, or crossbow bolts. The subject gains damage reduction 10/+1 against those ranged weapons. The damage reduction increases with the caster level to 10/+2 at 5th and
 10/+3 at 10th. Once the spell has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per caster level (maximum 100 points), it is discharged.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Raise Dead
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  1 minute; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Dead creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The divine spellcaster restores life to a deceased creature. The caster can raise creatures who have been dead up to one day per caster level. 
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Raise dead}{\fs20 
 cures hit point damage up to a total of 1 hit point per Hit Die. Any ability scores damaged to 0 are raised to 1. Normal poison and normal disease are cured in the process of raising the subject, but magical diseases and curses are not undone. W
hile the spell closes mortal wounds and repairs lethal damage of most kinds, the body of the creature to be raised must be whole. Otherwise, missing parts are still missing when the creature is brought back to life. None of the dead creature\rquote 
s equipment or possessions are affected in any way by this spell.
\par A creature who has been turned into an undead creature can\rquote t be raised by this spell. Constructs, elementals, outsiders, and undead creatures can\rquote t be raised. The spell cannot bring back a creature who has died of old age.
\par The subject of the spell loses one level when it is raised, just as if it had lost a level to an energy-draining creature. This level loss cannot be repaired by any spell. If the subject is 1st level, it loses 1 point of Constitution ins
tead. A character who died with spells prepared has a 50% chance of losing any given spell upon being raised, in addition to losing spell slots for losing a level. A spellcasting creature that doesn\rquote 
t prepare spells has a 50% chance of losing any spell he or she has prepared but not yet cast, in addition to losing spell slots for losing a level.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 26.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Ray of Fatigue
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Necromancy
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Ray; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  No; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster must succeed at a ranged touch attack with the ray to strike a target. The subject is immediately fatigued for the spell\rquote s duration. A fatigued character suffers a \endash 2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity and can\rquote 
t run or charge. This spell has no effect on a creature who is already fatigued.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Read Magic
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Universal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0, Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level
\par This spell allows the caster to read magical inscriptions on objects that would otherwise be unintelligible. This deciphering does not invoke the magic contained in the writing. Furthermore, once the spell is cast and the caster 
has read the magical inscription, he or she is thereafter able to read that particular writing without recourse to the use of }{\cs27\fs20 read magic.}{\fs20  The caster can read at the rate of one page (250 words) per minute.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Remove Curse
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3, Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature or item touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Remove curse}{\fs20  instantaneously removes any curses on a creature. Certain special curses may not be countered by this spell or may be countered only by a caster of a certain level or higher.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Remove curse}{\fs20  counters }{\cs27\fs20 bestow curse}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Remove Disease
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Remove disease}{\fs20  cures all treatable diseases afflicting the subject. It does not rid the subject of a disease for which no cure exists. Since the spell\rquote s duration is instan\-
taneous, it does not prevent reinfection after a new exposure to the same disease at a later date.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Remove Fear
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One creature plus one additional creature/four levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes (see text); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{
\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster grants the target a +4 morale bonus against }{\cs27\fs20 fear}{\fs20  effects for 10 minutes. If the subject is suffering from a }{\cs27\fs20 fear}{\fs20  effect when receiving the spell, it gets a new save with a +4 morale bonus.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Remove fear}{\fs20  counters and dispels }{\cs27\fs20 cause fear}{\fs20 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Remove Paralysis
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20 
 Up to four creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The caster can free one or more creatures from the effects of any temporary paralysis or related magic, including a }{\cs27\fs20 hold}{\fs20  spell or a }{\cs27\fs20 slow }{\fs20 spell. If the spell is cast on one creature, the paralysis is negate
d. If cast on two creatures, each receives another save with a +4 resistance bonus against the effect that afflicts it. If cast on three or four creatures, each receives another save with a +2 resistance bonus.
\par The spell does not restore ability scores reduced by penalties, damage, or loss.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Resist Energy
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2, Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)

\par This abjuration grants a creature limited protection to damage from whichever one of five energy types the caster selects: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion. The creature gains energy resistance 10 against the e
nergy type chosen, meaning that each time the creature is subjected to such damage (whether from a natural or magical source), that damage is reduced by 10 points before being applied to the creature\rquote 
s hit points. The value of the energy resistance granted increases by 5 points for every three caster levels above 3rd. The spell protects the recipient\rquote s equipment as well. 
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Resist energy}{\fs20  absorbs only damage. The character could still suffer unfortunate side effects.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Resistance
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0, Mage 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject is granted a +1 resistance bonus on saving throws.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Restoration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Healing)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S. M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  3 rounds; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Restoration }{\fs20 cures all temporary ability damage and restores all points permanently drained from a single ability score (caster\rquote 
s choice if more than one score is drained). This spell also dispels negative levels and restores one experience level to a creature who has had a level
 drained. The drained level is restored only if the time since the creature lost the level is equal to or less than one day per caster level.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Restoration}{\fs20  does not restore level loss or Constitution point loss as a result of being raised from the dead.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 20.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Searing Light
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Ray; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The caster mus
t succeed at a ranged touch attack to strike his or her target. A creature struck by this ray of light takes 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8). Undead creatures take 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6), and undead c
reatures particularly vulnerable to sunlight take 1d8 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d8). Constructs and inanimate objects take only 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d6).
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 See Invisibility
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cone; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level (D); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster sees any objects or beings that are invisible as if they were normally visible.
\par The spell does not reveal the method used to obtain invisibility. It does not reveal illusions or enable the caster to see through opaque objects. It does not reveal creatures who are simply hiding, concealed, or otherwise hard to see.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Components:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 7.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Shatter
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Evocation [Sonic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  5-ft. radius spread, or one solid object or crystalline creature; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20 
 Will negates (object) or Fortitude half (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (object)
\par Used as an area attack, shatter destroys nonmagical objects of crystal, glass, porcelain, or ceramic, such as vials, bottles, flasks, jugs, windows, mirrors, and 
so forth. All such objects within a 5-foot radius of the point of origin are smashed into dozens of pieces by the spell. Objects weighing more than 1 pound per caster level are not affected, but all other objects of the appropriate composition are shatter
ed.
\par Alternatively, the caster can target this spell against a single solid object, regardless of composition, weighing up to 10 pounds per caster level.
\par Targeted against a crystalline creature (of any weight), shatter deals 1d6 points of sonic damage per caster level (maximum 10d6), with a Fortitude save for half damage.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Shield
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration [Force]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D)
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Shield}{\fs20  creates an invisible, mobile disk of force that hovers in front of the caster. It negates }{\cs27\fs20 magic missile}{\fs20 
 attacks directed at the caster. The disk also intercepts attacks, providing a +4 bonus to Defense. The shield carries no armor penalty or arcane spell failure chance.
\par 
\par }{Shield of Faith
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par This spell creates a shimmering, magical field around the touched creature that averts attacks. The spell grants the subject a +2 deflection bonus, with an additional +1 to the bonus at 6th caster level.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Shout
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Sonic]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:
}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Cone; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Fortitude partial (see text) (object); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (object)
\par The caster emits an ear-splitting yell that deafens and damages creatures in its path. Any creature withi
n the area is deafened for 2d6 rounds and takes 2d6 points of damage. A successful save negates the deafness and reduces the damage by half. Any exposed brittle or crystalline object takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level. Creatures holding fragile o
bjects can negate damage to them with successful Reflex saves.
\par A deafened character, in addition to the obvious effects, suffers a \endash 4 penalty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen checks, and has a 20% chance to miscast and lose any spell with a verbal component that he or she tries to cast.
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 shout}{\fs20  spell cannot penetrate the spell }{\cs27\fs20 silence.}{\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Silence
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Illusion
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  15-ft.-radius emanation centered on a creature, object, or point in space; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates or none (object); }{
\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes or no (object)
\par Upon the casting of this spell, complete silence prevails in the affected area. All sound is stopped: C
onversation is impossible, spells with verbal components cannot be cast, and no noise whatsoever issues from, enters, or passes through the area. The spell can be cast on a point in space, but the effect is stationary unless cast on a mobile object. The s
pell can be centered on a creature, and the effect then radiates from the creature and moves as it moves. An unwilling creature can attempt a Will save to negate the spell and can use spell resistance, if any. Items in a creature\rquote 
s possession or magic items that emit sound receive saves and spell resistance, but unattended objects and points in space do not. This spell provides a defense against sonic or language-based attacks.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Sleep
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  Several living creatures within a 15-ft.-radius burst; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20 
 Yes
\par A }{\cs27\fs20 sleep }{\fs20 spell causes a comatose slumber to come upon one or
 more creatures. Roll 2d4 to determine how many total HD of creatures can be affected. Creatures with the fewest HD are affected first. Among creatures with equal HD, those who are closest to the spell\rquote 
s point of origin are affected first. No creature with 5 or more HD is affected, and HD that are not sufficient to affect a creature are wasted.
\par Sleeping creatures are helpless. Slapping or wounding awakens affected creatures, but normal noise does not. Awakening a creature is a move action.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Sleep }{\fs20 does not affect unconscious creatures, constructs, or undead creatures.
\par }{\b\fs20 Note:}{\fs20  Additional hit points given along with a creature\rquote s Hit Dice are irrelevant for determining how many Hit Dice a creature has.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Slow
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 
Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par Affected creatures move and attack at a drastically slowed rate. }{\cs27\fs20 Slowed}{\fs20  creatures can take only a single move action or attack action each turn, but not both (nor may they take full-round actions). Additionally, they suffer \endash 
2 penalties to Defense, melee attack rolls, melee damage rolls, and Reflex saves. }{\cs27\fs20 Slowed}{\fs20  creatures jump half as far as normal.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 Slow}{\fs20  counters and dispels }{\cs27\fs20 haste}{\fs20  but does not otherwise affect magically speeded or slowed creatures.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Spider Climb
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2, Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action
; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject can climb and travel on vertical surfaces or even traverse ceilings. The affected creature must have its hands free to climb in this manner. The subject gains a climb speed of 20 feet and need not make Climb checks to scale a surface.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Status
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Targets:}{\fs20  One creature touched/three \-levels; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 hour/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par S}{\cs27\fs20 tatus}{\fs20  allows a divine caster to mentally monitor the relative positions and general condition of his or her companions. The caster is aware
 of direction and distance to the creatures and their status: unharmed, wounded, disabled, staggered, unconscious, dying, dead, and so forth. Once the spell has been cast upon the subjects, the distance between them and the caster does not affect the spel
l.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Stoneskin
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Abjuration
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level or until discharged; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject gains damage reduction 10/\emdash  against physical attacks. Once the spell has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per caster level, it is discharged.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Components:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 23.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Telekinesis
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Target or Targets:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Concentration (up to 1 round/level) or instantaneous (see text); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (object) (see text); }{
\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (object) (see text)
\par The caster can move objects or creatures by concentrating on them. Depending on the version selected, the spell can provide either a gentle, sustained force or a single short, violent thrust.
\par }{\b\fs20 Sustained Force:}{\fs20  A sustained force moves a creature or object w
eighing up to 25 pounds per caster level up to 20 feet per round. A creature can negate the effect against itself or against an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with spell resistance.
\par This version of the spell lasts up to 1 round per caster level, but it ends if the caster ceases concentration. The weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or both. An object cannot be moved beyond the caster\rquote 
s range. The spell ends if the object is forced beyond the range. If the caster ceases concentration for any reason, the object falls or stops.
\par An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand, if the force required is within the weight limitation. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Violent Thrust: }{\fs20 Alternatively, the spell energy can be expended in a single round. Th
e caster can hurl one or more objects or creatures that are within range and all within 10 feet of each other toward any target within 10 feet/level of all the objects. The caster can hurl up to a total weight of 25 pounds per caster level.
\par The caster must succeed at attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target with the items, using his or her base attack bonus + Intelligence modifier. Weap\-
ons deal their normal damage (with no Strength bonus). Other objects cause damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds (for less dangerous objects) to 1d6 points of damage per 25 pounds (for hard, dense objects).
\par Creatures who fall within the weight capacity of the spell can be hurled, but they are allowed Will saves to negate the effect, as are those 
whose held possessions are targeted by the spell. If a telekinesed creature is hurled against a solid surface, it takes damage as if it had fallen 10 feet.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Tongues
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 4, Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  10 minutes/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell grants the creature touched the ability to speak and understand the language of any intelligent creature, whether it is a species language or a regional dialect.  }{\cs27\fs20 Tongues}{\fs20 
 does not enable the subject to speak with creatures who don\rquote t speak. The subject can make him or herself understood as far as her voice carries. This spell does not predispose any creature addressed toward the subject in any way.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 True Seeing
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par Th
e caster confers on the subject the ability to see all things as they actually are. The subject sees through normal and magical darkness, notices secret doors hidden by magic or psionics, sees invisible creatures or objects normally, sees through illusion
s, and sees the true form of changed or transmuted things. The range of }{\cs27\fs20 true seeing}{\fs20  conferred is 120 feet.
\par }{\cs27\fs20 True seeing}{\fs20 , however, does not penetrate solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray vision or its equivalent. It does not cancel concealment, including that caused by fog and the like. }{\cs27\fs20 True seeing}{\fs20 
 does not help the viewer see through mundane disguises, spot creatures who are simply hiding, or notice secret panels hidden by mundane means. The effects cannot be combined with other spells and powers.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 16.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 True Strike
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Divination
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 1; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, F; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Personal; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  You; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  See text
\par The caster\rquote s next single attack roll (if it is made before the end of the next round) gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, the caster is not affected by the miss chance that applies to attacks against a concealed target.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Virtue
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 0; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Creature touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes (harmless)
\par The subject gains 1 temporary hit point.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Wall of Fire
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Fire]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Opaque sheet of flame up to 20 ft. long/caster level or a ring of fire with a radius of up to 5 ft./two caster levels; either form 20 ft. high; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20 
 Concentration + 1 round/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par An i
mmobile curtain of fire springs into existence. One side of the wall, selected by the caster, sends forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of fire damage to those past 10 feet but within 20 feet. 
T
he wall deals this damage when it appears and each round that a creature enters or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire damage +1 point of fire damage per caster level to any creature passing through it. The wall deals doubl
e damage to undead creatures.
\par If the caster evokes the wall so that it appears where creatures are, each creature takes damage as if passing through the wall. Each such creature can avoid the wall by making a successful Reflex save. (If the creature ends up
 on the hot side of the wall, it takes 2d4 points of damage, as normal.)
\par If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points of cold damage or more in 1 round, that length goes out. (Do not divide cold damage by 4, as normal for objects.)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Wall of Force
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Force]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level (D); }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  None; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par A }{\cs27\fs20 wall of force}{\fs20  spell creates an invisible wall of force. The }{\cs27\fs20 wall of force}{\fs20  cannot move, it is immune to damage of all kinds, and it is unaffected by }{\cs27\fs20 dispel magic}{\fs20 
. Spells, breath weapons, and flamethrowers cannot pass through the wall in either direction, although }{\cs27\fs20 dimension door}{\fs20  can bypass the barrier. Gaze attacks can operate through the }{\cs27\fs20 wall of force}{\fs20 .
\par The caster can form the wall into a flat, vertical plane whose area is up to one 10-foot square per level, or into a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 foot per level.
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 wall of force}{\fs20  must be continuous and unbroken when formed. If its surface is broken by any object or creature, the spell fails.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Wall of Ice
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Evocation [Cold]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 4; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 
Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Anchored plane of ice, up to one 10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. + 1 ft./level; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 
Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par This spell creates an anchored plane of ice or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the version selected. A }{\cs27\fs20 wall of ice }{\fs20 cannot form in an area occupied by physical objects or creatures. Its surface must be smooth and unbroken when cre
ated. Fire, including fire spells, can melt a }{\cs27\fs20 wall of ice}{\fs20 . Fire deals full damage to the wall (instead of the normal half damage suffered by objects). Suddenly melting the }{\cs27\fs20 wall of ice}{\fs20 
 (by reducing it to 0 hit points in a single attack) creates a 10-foot-radius cloud of fog that lasts for 10 minutes. Objects and creatures within the area are treated as if they had one-half concealment (20% miss chance) with respect to one another.

\par Ice Plane: A sheet of strong, hard ice appears. The wall is 1 inch thick per c
aster level. It covers up to a 10-foot-square area per caster levels. The plane can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is anchored. A vertical wall need only be anchored on the floor, while a horizontal or slanting wall must be anchored on two oppos
ite sides.
\par Each 10-foot square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for
 the Strength check is 15 + caster level.
\par Even when the ice has been broken through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any creature stepping through it takes 1d6 points of cold damage +1 point per caster level.
\par Hemisphere:}{\cs27\fs20  }{\fs20 The wall takes the form of a hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 feet +1 foot per caster level.  It is as hard to break through as the}{\cs40\fs20  ice plane}{\fs20 
 form, but it does not deal damage to those who go through a breach.
\par The caster can create the hemisphere so that it traps one or more creatures, though these creatures can avoid being trapped by the hemisphere by making successful Reflex saves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Wall of Iron
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Iron wa
ll whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (see text); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par The caster causes a flat, vertical iron wall to spring into being. This wall inserts itself into any surrounding nonliving mater
ial if its area is sufficient to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object. It must always be a flat plane, though the caster can shape its edges to fit the available space.
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 wall of iron}{\fs20  is 1 inch thick per four caster levels. The caster can double the wall\rquote 
s area by halving its thickness. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 30 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 10. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creatu
re tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par If the caster desires, the wall can be created vertically resting on a flat surface but not attached to the surface so that it can be ti
pped over to fall on and crush creatures beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in either direction if left unpushed. Creatures can push the wall in one direction rather than letting it fall randomly. A creature must succeed at a Strength check (DC 40)
 to push the wall over. Creatures with room to flee the falling wall may do so by making \-successful Reflex saves. Large and smaller creatures who fail take 10d6 points of damage. The wall cannot crush Huge and larger creatures.
\par Like any iron wall, this wall is subject to rust, perforation, and other natural phenomena.
\par }{\cs27\b\fs20 Material Component:}{\fs20  Purchase DC 18.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Wall of Stone
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 5, Mage 5; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20 
 Stone wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (S); }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  Instantaneous; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  See text; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  No
\par This spell creates a wall of rock that merges into adjoining rock surfaces.  The }{\cs27\fs20 wall of stone}{\fs20  is 1 inch thick per four caster levels and composed of up to one 5-foot square per level. You can double the wall\rquote 
s area by halving its thickness. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object.
\par A }{\cs27\fs20 wall of stone}{\fs20  can be created in al
most any shape the caster desires. The wall created need not be vertical, nor rest upon any firm foundation; however, it must merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. If used to bridge a chasm, if the span is more than 20 feet, the wall must
 be arched and buttressed. This requirement reduces the spell\rquote s area by half. 
\par Like any other stone wall, this one can be destroyed by explosives or brought down by bludgeoning or piercing weapons. Each 5-foot square has 15 hit points per inch of thickness 
and hardness 8. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 20 + 2 per inch of thickness.
\par It is possible to trap mobile opponents within or under a }{\cs27\fs20 wall of stone}{\fs20 , provided the wall is shaped so it can hold the creatures. Creatures avoid entrapment with successful Reflex saves.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Water Breathing
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 3, Mage 3; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M/DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20 
 Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Touch; }{\b\fs20 Target:}{\fs20  Living creatures touched; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  2 hours/level (see text); }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates (harmless); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20 
 Yes (harmless)
\par The transmuted creatures can breathe water freely. Divide the duration evenly among all the creatures touched. The spell does not make creatures unable to breathe air.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Web
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Conjuration (Creation)
\par }{\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Mage 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, M; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); }{\b\fs20 Effect:}{\fs20  Webs in a 20-ft.-radius spread; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}
{\fs20  10 minutes/_level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Reflex negates (see text); }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par The }{\cs27\fs20 web}{\fs20  spell creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands. These strands trap those caught in them.  These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and diametrically opposed points\emdash 
floor and ceiling, opposite walls, and so forth\emdash or else the web collapses upon itself and disappears. Creatures caught within a }{\cs27\fs20 web}{\fs20  or simply touching its strands become entangled among the gluey fibers.
\par An entangled creature takes a \endash 2 penalty on attack rolls, takes a \endash 4 penalty to effective Dexterity, and can\rquote t move. An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell must make a Concentration check (DC 15) or lose the spell.
\par Anyone in the effect\rquote s area when the spell is cast must make a Reflex sav
e. If this save succeeds, the creature is not stuck in the webs and is free to act, though moving is slow and may cause it to become stuck (see below). If the save fails, the creature is stuck. A stuck creature can break loose by spending 1 round and succ
e
eding on a Strength check (DC 20) or an Escape Artist check (DC 25). Once loose (either by making the initial Reflex save or a later Strength check or Escape Artist check), a creature may progress through the web very slowly. Each round devoted to moving 
allows the creature to make a new Strength check or Escape Artist check. The creature moves 5 feet for each full 5 points by which the check result exceeds 10.
\par The web provides one-quarter cover for every 5 feet of the substance between the character and an opponent\emdash one-half cover for 10 feet of web, three-quarters for 15 feet, and total cover for 20 feet or more.
\par The strands of a }{\cs27\fs20 web}{\fs20  spell are flammable. Any fire can set them alight and burn away 5 square feet in 1 round. All creatures within flaming webs take 2d4 points of damage from the flames.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Zone of Truth
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Level:}{\fs20  Acolyte 2; }{\b\fs20 Components:}{\fs20  V, S, DF; }{\b\fs20 Casting Time:}{\fs20  Attack action; }{
\b\fs20 Range:}{\fs20  Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b\fs20 Area:}{\fs20  5-ft.-radius/level emanation; }{\b\fs20 Duration:}{\fs20  1 minute/level; }{\b\fs20 Saving Throw:}{\fs20  Will negates; }{\b\fs20 Spell Resistance:}{\fs20  Yes
\par Creatures within the emanation area (or those who enter it) can\rquote t speak any deliberate and intentional lies. Creatures are allowed a save to avoid the effects when the spell is cast or when they first ente
r the emanation area. Affected creatures are aware of this enchantment. Creatures who leave the area are free to speak as they choose.
\par }}