{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f36\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f116\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Conques-Demi{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f120\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f121\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f123\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f124\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f125\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f126\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f127\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Normal (Web);}{\s18\qj \fi180\li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Core Body;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f36\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 Core Body No Indent;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-460\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\caps\f116\fs52\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext20 *H2;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f116\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 *H3;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f116\fs30\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon21 \snext22 *H4;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Allegiances}{\subject MSRD}{\author AKSmith}
{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo9\dy5\hr11\min2}{\revtim\yr2003\mo8\dy26\hr9\min48}{\version11}{\edmins9}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords530}{\nofchars3022}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws3711}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn posrelh}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn posrelv}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone ALLEGIANCES
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par The allegiances system is optional. 
\par 
\par A character may have up to three allegiances, listed in order from most important to least
 important.  These allegiances are indications of what the character values in life, and may encompass people, organizations, or ideals. A character may have no allegiances (being either a free spirit or a lone wolf) or may change allegiances as he or she
 goes through life. Also, just because the character fits into a certain category of people doesn\rquote t mean the character has to have that category as an allegiance.
\par If the character acts in a way that is detrimental to his or her allegiance, the GM may choose to strip the character of that allegiance (and all its benefits) and assign an allegiance more suitable to those actions.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Pledging Allegiance
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A hero\rquote 
s allegiance can take the form of loyalty to a person, to an organization, to a belief system, to a natio
n, or to an ethical or moral philosophy. In general, a character can discard an allegiance at any time, but may only gain a new allegiance after attaining a new level.
\par Having an allegiance implies having sufficient intelligence and wisdom to make a moral or ethical choice. As a result, a character must have Intelligence and Wisdom scores of 3 or higher in order to select allegiances.
\par 
\par Allegiances include, but are not limited to, the following examples.
\par Person or Group: This includes a leader or superior, a family, a group of linked individuals (such as a band of adventurers or a cell of secret agents), or a discrete unit within a larger organization (such as members of the character\rquote 
s squad or platoon, or individuals whose safety the character is responsible for).
\par Organization: This may be a company or corporation, a gathering of like-minded individuals, a fraternal brotherhood, a secret society, a branch of the armed forces, a local, state, or national government, a university, an employer, or an otherwise e
stablished authority. 
\par Nation: This may or may not be the nation that the hero currently resides in. It may be where the individual was born, or where the hero resides after emigrating to a new home.
\par Belief System: This is usually a particular faith or religion, but can also be a specific philosophy or school of thought. Belief systems could also include political beliefs or philosophical outlooks.
\par Ethical Philosophy: This describes how one feels about order, as represented by law and chaos. An individual w
ith a lawful outlook tends to tell the truth, keep his or her word, respect authority, and honor tradition, and he or she expects others to do likewise. An individual with a chaotic outlook tends to follow his or her instincts and whims, favor new ideas a
nd experiences, and behave in a subjective and open manner in dealings with others.
\par Moral Philosophy: This describes one\rquote s attitude toward others, as represented by good and evil. An individual with a good allegiance tends to protect innocent life. This bel
ief implies altruism, respect for life, and a concern for the dignity of other creatures. An evil allegiance shows a willingness to hurt, oppress, and kill others, and to debase or destroy innocent life.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Allegiances and Influence
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 An allegiance can create an empathic bond with others of the same allegiance. With the GM\rquote 
s permission, the character gains a +2 circumstance bonus on Charisma-based skill checks when dealing with someone of the same allegiance\emdash as long as the character has had some interaction wit
h the other character to discover the connections and bring the bonus into play.}{\fs20\ul 
\par }}