{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-BoldCondensed{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Conques-Demi{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Agenda-LightItalic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f42\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}HandelGothicEF-Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f125\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f126\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f128\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f129\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f130\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f131\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f132\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 
Hyperlink;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 
Normal (Web);}{\s18\qj \fi180\li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Core Body;}{\s19\qj \li0\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext19 Core Body No Indent;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-460\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f40\fs52\up2\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext20 *H2;}{\s21\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext21 *H3;}{\s22\ql \li0\ri0\sb230\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tx180\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f40\fs30\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext22 *H4;}{\s23\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext23 Body Text;}{
\s24\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext24 
*Small Table column body;}{\s25\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 \f39\fs21\up3\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon24 \snext25 *table col heads alone;}{\s26\ql \li40\ri40\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx359\tqc\tx924\tqc\tx1521\tqc\tx2368\tqc\tx3081\tqc\tx3779\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin40\lin40\itap0 
\f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon24 \snext26 *Small Table column shade body;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f41\fs19 Core Body Italic;}{\s28\qj \fi-180\li360\ri0\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext28 Hanging bullet;}{\*\cs29 \additive \f38\fs24 Bullet Only;}{\s30\ql \li0\ri0\sb345\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar
\tx-512\tx0\tx180\tqr\tx271\tx360\tx1033\tqc\tx2165\tqr\tx3072\tb18547\tqc\tx20481\tx21248\tx21504\tqc\tx26880\tx29185\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f40\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon21 \snext30 
Sidebar H3;}{\s31\qj \fi180\li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon18 \snext31 Sidebar Body;}{\s32\qj \li180\ri180\sl-230\slmult0
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin180\lin180\itap0 \f38\fs21\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon31 \snext32 Sidebar Body No Indent;}{\s33\qc \li0\ri0\sb230\sa115\sl-460\slmult0
\keep\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \caps\f42\fs44\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext33 *H1;}}{\info{\title Occupation}{\subject MSRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo10\dy21\hr11\min27}{\revtim\yr2003\mo8\dy29\hr11\min40}{\version34}{\edmins35}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords2002}{\nofchars11415}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws14018}{\vern8283}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0{\*\background 
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbxignore\shpbymargin\shpbyignore\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}
{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn posrelh}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn posrelv}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fLayoutInCell}{\sv 1}}}}}\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\pgbrdropt32\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36\ulnone STARTING OCCUPATION
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
\par A hero may hold other jobs as his or her career unfolds, but the benefits of a starting occupation are only applied once, at the time of character creation.
\par Many starting occupations have a prerequisite that the character must meet to qualify for the occupation. Each occupation provides a number of additional permanent class skills that the character can select from a list of choices. On
ce selected, a permanent class skill is always considered to be a class skill for the character. If the skill selected is already a class skill for the character, he or she also gains a one-time competence bonus for that skill.
\par Some starting occupations pr
ovide a Reputation bonus or a bonus feat (in addition to the two feats a 1st-level character already receives). A character still must meet any prerequisites for these bonus feats. Finally, a starting occupation increases the character\rquote 
s Wealth bonus.
\par Choose one occupation from the available selections and apply the benefits to the character as noted in the occupation\rquote s description.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Academic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Academics include librarians, archaeologists, scholars, professors, teachers, and other education professionals.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 23+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.
\par Computer Use, Craft (writing), Decip
her Script, Gather Information, Knowledge (arcane lore, art, behavioral sciences, business, civics, current events, earth and life sciences, history, physical sciences, popular culture, tactics, technology, or theology and philosophy), Research, or add a 
new Read/Write Language or a new Speak Language.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +3.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Adventurer
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Adventurers include professional daredevils, big-game hunters, relic hunters, explorers, extreme sports enthusiasts, field scientists, thrill-seekers, and others called to face danger for a variety of reasons.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that s
kill.  Bluff, Climb, Demolitions, Disable Device, Drive, Escape Artist, Intimidate, Jump, Knowledge (arcane lore, streetwise, tactics, or technology), Move Silently, Pilot, Ride, Spot, Survival, Swim, Treat Injury.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select one of the following: Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Brawl, or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Athlete
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Athletes include amateur athletes of Olympic quality and professional athletes of all types, including gymnasts, weight trainers, wrestlers, boxers, martial artists, swimmers, skaters, and those who engage in any type of competitive sport.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Strength 13 or Dexterity 13.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class
 skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Balance, Climb, Drive, Jump, Ride, Swim, Tumble.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Brawl.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Blue Collar
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Blue collar occupations include factory work, food service jobs, construction, service industry jobs, taxi drivers, postal workers, and other jobs that are usually not considered to be desk jobs.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 18+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following
 skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill. Craft (electronic, mechanical, or structural), Climb, Drive, Handle Animal, Intimidate, Repa
ir, Ride.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Celebrity
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
A celebrity is anyone who, for whatever reason, has been thrust into the spotlight of the public eye. Actors, entertainers of all types, newscasters, radio and television personalities, and more fall under this starting occupation.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose one of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Bluff, Craf
t (visual art or writing), Diplomacy, Disguise, Perform (act, dance, keyboards, percussion instruments, sing, stand-up, stringed instruments, or wind instruments).
\par }{\b\fs20 Reputation Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +4.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Creative
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1 The creative starting occupation covers artists of all types }{\fs20 
who fan their creative spark into a career. Illustrators, copywriters, cartoonists, graphic artists, novelists, magazine columnists, actors, sculptors, game designers, musicians, screenwriters, photographers, and web de
signers all fall under this occupation.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that 
skill.  Bluff, Computer Use, Craft (visual art or writing), Disguise, Forgery, Knowledge (arcane lore or art), Perform (act, dance, keyboards, percussion instruments, sing, stand-up, stringed instruments, or wind instruments), Spot.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Criminal
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
This illicit starting occupation reveals a background from the wrong side of the law. This occupation includes con artists, burglars, thieves, crime family soldiers, gang members, bank robbers, and other types of career criminals.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20 
 Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Disable Device, Disguise, Forgery, Gamble, Hi
de, Knowledge (streetwise), Move Silent\-ly, Sleight of Hand.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select either Brawl or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Dilettante
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Dilettantes usually get their wealth from family holdings and trust funds. The typical dilettante has no job, few re\-sponsibilities, and at least one driving passion that \-
occupies his or her day. That passion might be a charity or philanthropic foundation, an ideal or cause worth fighting for, or a lust for living a fun and carefree existence. 
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 18+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose one of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she re
ceives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill. Gamble, Intimidate, Knowledge (current events or popular culture), Ride, or add a new Speak Language.
\par }{\b\fs20 Reputation Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +6.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Doctor
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A doctor can be a physician (general \-practitioner or specialist), a surgeon, or a psychiatrist.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 25+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bon
us on checks using that skill.  Craft (pharmaceutical), Computer Use, Knowledge (behavioral sciences, earth and life sciences, or technology), Search, Treat Injury.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +4.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Emergency Services
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Rescue workers, firefighters, paramedics, ha
zardous material handlers, and emergency medical technicians fall under this category.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 18+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receive
s a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Balance, Climb, Computer Use, Drive, Jump, Knowledge (behavioral sciences, earth and life sciences, or technology), Search, Treat Injury, Swim.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Entrepreneur
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Entrepreneurs have
 an obsession about being their own boss. They believe in themselves, have an abundance of confidence, and the ability to acquire the funds necessary to bankroll their newest moneymaking venture. These small to large business owners have a knack for putti
ng together business plans, gathering resources, and getting a new venture off the ground. They rarely want to stick around after the launch, however, as they prefer to put their energies into the next big thing.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 18+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of
 the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Bluff, Diplomacy, Gamble, Knowledge (business, current events, or technology)
.
\par }{\b\fs20 Reputation Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +4.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Investigative
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
There are a number of jobs that fit within this occupation, including investigative reporters, photojournalists, private investigators, police detectives, criminologists, criminal pr
ofilers, espionage agents, and others who use their skills to gather evidence and analyze clues.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 23+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of t
he following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Computer Use, Craft (visual art or writing), Decipher Script, Forgery, Gather I
nformation, Investigate, Knowledge (behavioral sciences, civics, earth and life sciences, or streetwise), Research, Search, Sense Motive.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select either Brawl or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Law Enforcement
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Law enfor
cement personnel include uniformed police, state troopers, federal police, federal agents, SWAT team members, and military police.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 20+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects
 is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Diplomacy, Drive, Gather Information, Intimidate, Knowledge (civics, earth and life sciences, streetwise, or tactics), Listen.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select one of the following: Combat Martial Arts, Armor Proficiency (light), or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Military
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Military covers any of the branches of the armed forces, including army, navy, air force, and marines, as well as the various elite training units such as Seals, Rangers, and Special Forces.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 18+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus 
on checks using that skill.  Climb, Demolitions, Drive, Hide, Knowledge (tactics), Move Silently, Navigate, Pilot, Survival, Swim.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select one of the following: Brawl, Combat Martial Arts, Armor Proficiency (light), or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Religious
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
Ordained clergy of all persuasions, as well as theological scholars and experts on religious studies fall within the scope of this starting occupation.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 23+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following 
skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Decipher Script, Knowledge (arcane lore, art, behavioral sciences, history, streetwise, or t
heology and philosophy), Listen, Sense Motive.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +2.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Rural
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Farm workers, hunters, and others who make a living in rural communities fall under this category.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose two of the following skills as permanen
t class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Balance, Climb, Drive, Handle Animal, Repair, Ride, Survival, Swim.
\par }{\b\fs20 Bonus Feat:}{\fs20  Select either Brawl or Personal Firearms Proficiency.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Student
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 A student can be in high school, college, or graduate school. He or s
he could be in a seminary, a military school, or a private institution. A college-age student should also pick a major field of study.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 15+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character s
elects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Computer Use, Knowledge (arcane lore, art, behavioral sciences, business, civics, current events, earth and life sciences, history, physical sciences, p
opular culture, technology, or theology and philosophy), Perform (act, dance, keyboards, percussion instruments, sing, stand-up, stringed instruments, or wind instruments), Research.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +1.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 Technician
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Scientists and engineers of all types fit within the scope of this starting occupation.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 23+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20  Choose three of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on check
s using that skill. Computer Use, Craft (chemical, electronic, mechanical, or structural), Knowledge (business, earth and life sciences, physical sciences, or technology), Repair, Research.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +3.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0 White Collar
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Office workers and desk j
ockeys, lawyers, accountants, insurance agents, bank personnel, financial advisors, tax preparers, clerks, sales personnel, real estate agents, and a variety of mid-level managers fall within the scope of this starting occupation.
\par }{\b\fs20 Prerequisite:}{\fs20  Age 23+.
\par }{\b\fs20 Skills:}{\fs20 
 Choose two of the following skills as permanent class skills. If a skill the character selects is already a class skill, he or she receives a +1 competence bonus on checks using that skill.  Computer Use, Diplomacy, Knowledge (art, business, civics, 
earth and life sciences, history, physical sciences, or technology), Research.
\par }{\b\fs20 Wealth Bonus Increase:}{\fs20  +3.
\par }}