{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f45\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f50\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title JYNX}{\author asmith}
{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy15\hr13\min35}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy15\hr13\min35}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages18}{\nofwords18127}{\nofchars103329}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws126895}{\vern8229}}
\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 MENACE CREATURES (J-Z)
\par }{
\par JYNX
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Electricity Immunity (Ex): }{A jynx is immune to electricity damage, though a successful attack tha
t deals such damage causes it to become visible (see below).
\par }{\b Natural Invisibility (Su): }{A jynx remains invisible even when attacking. Any creature that correctly discerns its location despite being unable to see it has a 50% miss chance on melee and ranged
 attacks. This ability is always active, but the jynx can suppress or resume it at will as a free action.
\par }{\b Rending Claws (Ex): }{A jynx\rquote s claws ignore the hardness of items made of wood, metal, or plastic.
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{A jynx gains a +4 species bonus on Disable Device checks.
\par }{\b\i Spider Climb }{\b (Sp): }{A jynx can travel on any surface as though affected by a }{\i spider climb }{spell. This ability is always active.
\par }{\b 
\par Jynx: }{CR 1; Small fey; HD 1d6; hp 3; Mas 11; Init +4; Spd 30 ft., fly 150 ft. (perfect); Defense 16, touch 15, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 6; Atk +5 melee (1d3\endash 2, claw); Full Atk +5 melee (1d3\endash 
2, 2 claws) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ electricity immunity, low-light vision, natural invisibility, rending claws, }{\i spider climb}{
; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +8, Climb +2, Disable Device +10, Escape Artist +8, Hide +8, Jump +2, Listen +7, Move Silently +8, Pilot +8; Repair +3, Search +6, Spot +7. 
\par }{\b Feats: }{Dodge, Mobility, Weapon Finesse (claw).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Jynx Fast Hero 3: }{CR 4; Small fey; HD 1d6 plus 3d8; hp 17; Mas 11; Init +4; Spd 30 ft., fly 150 ft. (perfect); Defense 20, touch 19, flat-footed 16 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +1 natural, +4 class); BAB +2; Grap \endash 4; Atk +7 melee (1d3\endash 
2, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d3\endash 2, 2 claws) or +6 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ electricity immunity, low-light vision, natural invisibility, rending claws, }{\i spider climb}{
; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +6, Will +6; AP 1; Rep +1; Str 7, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Adventurer.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +14, Climb +2, Demolitions +8, Disable Device +16, Drive +7, Escape Artist +14, Hide +8, Jump +4, Listen +7, Move Silently +8, Pilot +11; Repair +3, Search +6, Spot +7, Tumble +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Acrobatic, Aircraft Operation (heavy aircraft), Aircraft Operation (jet fighters), Dodge, Mobility, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Weapon Finesse (claws). 
\par }{\b Talents: }{Evasion, uncanny dodge 1.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {KINORI
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Cold Resistance 20 (Ex): }{A kinori ignores the first 20 points of cold damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Easy Breathing (Ex): }{Since a kinori requires much less oxygen to breathe than a human
 does, the creature can hold its breath for up to an hour. If exposed to a dangerous inhaled effect, a kinori gains a +5 species bonus on any required saving throw.
\par }{\b Light Sensitivity (Ex): }{A kinori takes a \endash 2 penalty on attack rolls, checks, and saves in sunlight or other bright light.
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{A kinori can turn its skin white as a free action, much as a chameleon changes its color. It gains a +4 species bonus on Hide checks when concealed against a white background, such as snow and ice.
\par }{\b 
\par Kinori: }{CR 1;
 Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 13; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 11, flat-footed 13 (+1 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d4+1, claw or bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) and +1 melee (1d
4, bite) or +3 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ cold resistance 20, darkvision 120 ft., easy breathing, light sensitivity; AL kinori, evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +5, Hide +5 (+9 when concealed against a white background), Listen +3, Move Silently +5, Spot +3, Survival +5, Swim +10.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapon Proficiency, Multiattack, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Kinori Strong Hero 1: }{CR 2; 
Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8+2 plus 1d8+1; hp 16; Mas 13; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 12, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +3 natural, +1 class); BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d4+2, claw or bite) or +4 ranged (2d6, Colt Desert E
a
gle); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4+2, 2 claws) and +2 melee (1d4+1, bite) or +4 ranged (2d6, Colt Desert Eagle); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ cold resistance 20, darkvision 200 ft., easy breathing, light sensitivity; AL kinori, evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +4, Wi
ll +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +6, Hide +5 (+9 when concealed against a white background), Listen +3, Move Silently +5, Spot +3, Survival +5, Swim +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Multiattack, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Talents (Strong Hero): }{Melee smash.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Colt Desert Eagle, 20 rounds of 10mm ammunition.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {LITTER BRUTE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Construct: }{A litter brute has the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b\i Dimension Door }{\b (Sp): }{
At will, a litter brute can remove its essence from the objects that form its body, dropping them wherever they happen to land, then reappear up to 500 feet away, reconstructing its body from garbage and refuse there (assuming enou
gh raw material exists in the target location). The litter brute cannot use its }{\i dimension door }{ability to transport other objects or creatures.
\par }{\b Electricity Immunity (Ex): }{A litter brute takes no damage from electricity. In fact, a litter brute struck by an electrical attack uses the residual energy to deal +1d6 points of electricity damage on its slam attacks the following round.
\par }{\b Engulf (Ex): }{A litter brute can simply bowl over opponents up to one size category smaller than itself as a free attack during its move action. This attack affects as many opponents as the monster\rquote 
s body can cover. Each target can make either an attack of opportunity against the litter brute or a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the litter brute\rquote s Hit Dice + its Strength modifier) to avoid 
being engulfed. A successful saving throw indicates that the target has been pushed back or aside (target\rquote s choice) as the litter brute surges forward.
\par An engulfed creature is considered grappled. A litter brute cannot make a slam attack during a round in 
which it attempts to engulf, but each engulfed creature takes slam damage (half bludgeoning, half slashing) on that round and every round that it remains trapped.
\par }{\b Fast Healing 1: }{So long as there is some sort of litter or refuse within 60 feet of it, a litter brute heals 1 point of damage per round unless it is reduced to \endash 
10 or fewer hit points. This ability does not enable the litter brute to regrow or reattach severed body parts.
\par }{\b Garbage Growth (Ex): }{A litter brute can stuff objects inside itself to add 
to its bulk, if desired. Given enough time and a large enough supply of refuse, it can increase its Hit Dice by 1 per 24 hours, provided that it does nothing else. See Advancement (below) for changes in size category based on Hit Dice.
\par }{\b Sharp Implements: }{Within a litter brute\rquote s body are countless sharp implements, which protrude from its form in various places. Because of these protrusions, half of the damage a litterfolk deals with a slam attack is slashing damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Litter Brute: }{CR 4; Large construct; HD 6d10+20; hp 53; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 17, touch 9, flat-footed 17 (\endash 
1 size, +8 natural); BAB +4; Grap +10; Atk +5 melee (1d8+2, slam); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+2, 2 slams); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, darkvision 60 ft., }{\i dimension door, }{
engulf, fast healing 5, garbage growth, sharp implements; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 11, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 10 HD (Large); 11\endash 18 HD (Huge); 19\endash 24 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Litter Brute: }{CR 6; Huge construct; HD 12d10+40; hp 106; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 18, touch 7, flatfooted 18 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +11 natural); BAB +9; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d6+6, slam); Full Atk +13 melee (2d6+6, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ construct, darkvision 60 ft., }{\i dimension door, }{
engulf, fast healing 5, garbage growth, sharp implements; AL none; SV Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 9, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {LUCIFERAN
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{Luciferans read, write, and speak Aramaic.
\par }{\b Body Glow (Su): }{A luciferan\rquote s skin constantly emits a pale red glow that is imperceptible in lighted conditions, but the effect reduces any concealment the luciferan may have due to darkness by one step.
\par }{\b Immolation (Su): }{A luciferan can increase the glow from its skin into a raging inferno. The flame so generated deal 6d6 points of fire damage to each object and creature within a 10-foot radius of the luciferan. 
A successful Reflex save (10 + 1/2 the luciferan\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) halves the damage.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A luciferan gains a +2 species bonus on Bluff and Intimidate checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Luciferan: }{CR 2; Medium-size outsider; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 14;
 Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (average); Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, 2 claws) or +3 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ body glo
w, darkvision 60 ft., immolation; AL any; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +4, Intimidate +4, Knowledge (arcane lore) +6, Read/Write Aramaic, Speak Aramaic, Speak English.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Colt Python, 12 rounds of .357 ammunition.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Luciferan Class Smart Hero 3/Mage 3: }{CR 8; Medium-size outsider; HD 2d8+2 plus 3d6+6 plus 3d6+6; hp 44; Mas 14; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 40 ft. 
(average); Defense 18, touch 14, flat-footed 17 (+1 Dex, +3 class, +4 natural); BAB +4; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d4, claw); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4, 2 claws), or +5 ranged (2d6, Colt Python revolver); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ body glow, brew potio
n, darkvision 60 ft., immolation, scribe scroll, summon familiar; AL any; SV Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +9; AP 3; Rep +3; Str 10, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 12, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Dilettante (bonus class skill: Intimidate).
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +4, Computer Use +7, C
oncentration +8, Craft (chemical) +10, Decipher Script +7, Disable Device +7, Intimidate +7, Investigate +7, Knowledge (arcane lore) +15, Knowledge (technology) +7, Read/Write Arabic, Read/Write Aramaic, Read/Write Dutch, Read/Write English, Research +10,
 Speak Arabic, Speak Aramaic, Speak Dutch, Speak English, Speak French, Spellcraft +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alien Weapons Proficiency, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Combat Expertise, Iron Will, Low Profile, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Talents: }{Savant (research), trick.
\par }{\b Mage Spells }{(4/3/1): 0\emdash }{\i detect magical aura}{, }{\i light}{, }{\i mage hand}{, }{\i read magic}{; 1st\emdash }{\i change self}{, }{\i power device}{, }{\i sleep}{; 2nd\emdash }{\i invisibility}{
. Caster level 3rd; save DC 11 + spell level.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Colt Python (.357 revolver), 12 rounds of .357 ammunition, 1d4 scrolls, 1d4 potions.
\par }{\fs24 
\par MALLEABLE CREATURE }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Malleable creature\'94
 is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal humanoid or monstrous humanoid (referred to hereafter as the \'93base creature\'94). The creature retains its original type. It uses the base creature\rquote 
s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +1.
\par }{\b Grapple Bonus: }{A malleable creature gains a +4 species bonus on grapple checks.
\par }{\b Special Qualities: }{A malleable creature retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Bludgeoning Resistance 5 (Ex): }{A malleable creature ignores the first 5 points of bludgeoning damage from any single attack.
\par }{\i Increased Reach (Ex): }{The reach of a malleable creature increases by 5 feet.
\par }{\i Malleable Form (Ex): }{This ability allows a malleable creature to make itself look different. It can appear 1 foot shorter or taller than its normal height, and it can seem thinner or fatter. It cannot
 change its skin, hair color, body type, or number of limbs. This ability does not allow the malleable creature to mimic the appearance of specific individuals.
\par As a full-round action, a malleable creature can squeeze through an opening as small as 6 inche
s square. In the case of an enclosed space, such as a drainpipe or airshaft, the malleable creature moves at one-third of its normal speed, but it can take no other actions until at least half of its body mass has emerged from the enclosure. Objects and c
lothing worn by the malleable creature may or may not be small enough to fit through the opening\emdash objects larger than Tiny are left behind unless every part of the opening is large enough to accommodate them.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, with a +1 species bonus on Fortitude saves, and modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A malleable creature\rquote s ability scores change as follows: Con +2, Dex \endash 4.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A malleable creature\rquote s pliant body grants it a +4 species bonus on Disguise checks and a +10 species bonus on Escape Artist checks.
\par }{\b Bonus Feat: }{A malleable creature gains Nimble as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b 
\par Malleable Human Tough Hero 4/Dedicated Hero 3: }{CR 8; Medium-size humanoid; HD 4d10+16 plus 3d6+12 plus 3 (Toughness); hp 63; Mas 19; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 16 (\endash 
2 Dex, +5 class, +3 undercover vest); BAB +5; Grap +10; Atk +6 melee (1d4+1, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged (2d6, Beretta 92F); Full Atk +6 melee (1d4+1, unarmed strike) or +3 ranged (2d6, Beretta 92F); FS 5 ft. 
by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ bludgeoning resistance 5, increased reach, malleable form; AL any; SV Fort +11, Ref +0, Will +6; AP 3; Rep +2; Str 12, Dex 6, Con 19, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +8, Climb +3, Concentration +6, Disguise +13, Escape Artist +14, Knowledge (current events) +2, Read/ Write English, Speak English, Spot +7, Survival +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Martial Arts, Defensive Martial Arts, Great Fortitude, Improved Combat Martial Arts, Nimble, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Toughness.
\par }{\b Talents (Tough Hero): }{Damage reduction 1/\endash , remain conscious.
\par }{\b Talents (Dedicated Hero): }{Intuition, skill emphasis (Disguise).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Undercover vest, Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 9mm ammunition, disguise kit.
\par }{\fs24 
\par MANIAC }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Maniac\'94 is an acquired template that can be added to any humanoid or monstrous humanoid (referred to hereafter as the \'93
base creature\'94). The creature retains its original type. It uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +1.
\par }{\b Hit Dice: }{Change to d12.
\par }{\b Attacks: }{A maniac retains all the attacks of the base creature and gains a slam attack if the base creature didn\rquote t already have one. If the base creature did
 not have a slam attack, use the base damage values in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base creature\rquote s base damage, whichever is greater.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564
\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Size \cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Slam Damage\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Fine \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Diminutive \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Tiny \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d3\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Small \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium-size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Large \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Huge \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Gargantuan \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Colossal \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2564\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b 
\par Special Qualities: }{A maniac retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional qualities described below.
\par }{\i Ability Surge (Ex): }{Once per day as a free action, the maniac can tempora
rily increase its Strength and Dexterity scores, but doing so imposes a penalty on its saving throws. While this ability is in effect, the maniac gains a +4 morale bonus to both Strength and Dexterity but takes a \endash 
2 penalty on all saving throws. Ability surge lasts for a number of rounds equal to the maniac\rquote s character level. Following an ability surge, the maniac is fatigued (\endash 
2 to Strength and Dexterity) for as many rounds as the surge was in effect, but it may negate this penalty as a free action by spending an action point.
\par }{\i Damage Reduction 5/\endash  (Ex): }{A maniac ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by any attack.
\par }{\i Immunities (Ex): }{A maniac is immune to mind-affecting effects.
\par }{\i Resistance to Massive Damage (Ex): }{A maniac gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{Previous allegiances are lost and replaced by allegiances to chaos and evil. Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class abilities.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, with a +2 bonus on Fortitude saves, and modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A maniac gains the following ability score increases: Str +4, Con +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{A maniac gains Improved Damage Threshold and Toughness as bonus feats.
\par }{\b 
\par Maniac (Strong Hero 2/Tough Hero 3): }{CR 6; Mediumsize humanoid; HD 5d12+20 plus 3 (robust) plus 3 (Toughness); hp 58; Mas 22; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 class); BAB +4; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (1d4+5/19\endash 
20 nonlethal, improved unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d6+5, slam) or +8 melee (3d6+5, chain saw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d4+5/19\endash 
20 nonlethal, improved unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d6+5, slam) or +8 melee (3d6+5, chain saw) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ ability surge, damage reduction 5/\endash 
, immunities, resistance to massive damage; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +12, Ref +2, Will +2; AP 2; Rep +1; Str 18, Dex 13, Con 19, Int 8, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +9, Jump +9, Read/Write English, Speak English, Spot +4, Survival +4.
\par }{\b Talents (Strong Hero): }{Melee smash.
\par }{\b Talents (Tough Hero): }{Remain conscious, robust.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Combat Martial Arts, Great Fortitude, Improved Combat Martial Arts, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Toughness.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Chain saw, Halloween mask, bloodstained overalls.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MAN-\rquote O-WAR, GIANT
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Attach (Ex): }{If a giant man-\rquote o-war hits with a strand attack, the strand latches onto the opponent\rquote 
s body. The attachment deals no damage, but the giant man-\rquote o-war can then draw the oppon
ent 20 feet closer to itself that round and each subsequent round thereafter that the opponent remains stuck. Once the creature is within 20 feet of the giant man-\rquote o-war, the man-\rquote 
o-war can draw it the remaining distance and bite (+4 melee) in that same round.
\par The opponent can break free of a strand with a successful Escape Artist check (DC 20) or Strength check (DC 16). Alternatively, the opponent or an ally can try to sever a strand. A single attack with a slashing weapon that deals at least 10 points of 
damage severs a strand (Defense 18).
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 5/Piercing (Ex): }{A giant man-\rquote o-war ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by any nonpiercing weapon.
\par }{\b Fire Vulnerability: }{A giant man-\rquote o-war takes 50% more damage from fire attacks.
\par }{\b Paralysis (Ex): }{The strands of a giant man-\rquote o-war secrete an anesthetizing slime. Any target hit by its strand attack must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the man-\rquote owar\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) or be paralyzed for 3d6 rounds. The man-\rquote o-war can automatically bite a paralyzed opponent.
\par }{\b Strands (Ex): }{A giant man-\rquote o-war lies in wait for prey by
\par spreading out its long, sticky strands and floating along on the deep currents. In this mode, it can spread its strands over a 100-foot radius. When something b
rushes one of the strands, all the rest of the strands contract to assist in pulling the prey toward the man-\rquote o-war\rquote s mouth.
\par }{\b Wavesense (Ex): }{A giant man-\rquote o-war can automatically sense the location of any object or creature within 150 feet that is in contact with the water.
\par }{\b 
\par Giant Man-\rquote o-War: }{CR 7; Large animal; HD 5d8+10; hp 32; Mas 15; Init +3; Spd swim 60 ft.; Defense 17, touch 12, flatfooted 14 (\endash 1 size, +3 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +3; Grap +9; Atk +4 melee (attach, strand) or +4 melee (1d4+2, bite); Full A
tk +4 melee (attach, 8 strands) and \endash 
1 melee (1d4+1, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft. (100 ft. with strand); SQ attach, damage reduction 5/piercing, fire vulnerability, paralysis, strands, wavesense; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +
0; Str 14, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 4.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +9, Move Silently +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{6\endash 9 HD (Large); 10\endash 15 HD (Huge).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel4\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 MAPINGUARI
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A mapinguari is more than 7 feet tall at the shoulder. Its body resembles that of a sloth and is cove
red with shaggy black or dark red fur. It has a long, sharp, backward-curving talon on each toe, and its face looks almost human. Few creatures can bear to come close enough to see its face, however, because of its unbearable stench. This foul odor emanat
es from a scent gland in its abdomen, which the natives have fancifully dubbed a \'93second mouth.\'94 The mapinguari\rquote s long, bellowing roar is legendary, and a few recordings of it are in the possession of the Smithsonian Institute.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a mapinguari to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Stench (Ex): }{The odor of a mapinguari is overpoweringly offensive. Anyone approaching within 60 feet of the creature must make a successful Fo
rtitude save (DC 18) or become nauseated. The nausea persists for as long as the creature remains in the area and for 1 round thereafter.
\par If a creature leaves and reenters the area, a new save is required.
\par }{\b 
\par Mapinguari: }{CR 5; Large animal; HD 8d8+48; hp 84; Mas 22; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 9, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
1 size, +6 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 slams); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent, stench; AL none; SV 
Fort +12, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 11, Con 22, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +10, Listen +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{9\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 18 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Mapinguari: }{CR 7; Huge animal; HD 15d8+120; hp 187; Mas 26; Init \endash 1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 7, flatfooted 16 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +9 natural); BAB +11; Grap +29; Atk +19 melee (2d4+10, slam); Full Atk +19 melee (2d4+10, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent, stench; AL none; SV Fort +17
, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 9, Con 26, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 8.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +14, Listen +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MEGALODON
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A typical megalodon measures between 55 and 90 feet long, weighs between 10 and 60 tons, and is characterized by its streaml
ined body and rear-facing teeth.
\par A megalodon can launch itself up to 40 feet out of the water to snatch up a low-flying creature or object.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits}{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the megalodon must hit an opponent at least one size categor
y smaller than itself with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can swallow in the next round.
\par }{\b Keen Scent (Ex): }{A megalodon notices creatures by scent within a 180-foot radius. It can detect blood in the water at a range of up to 1 mile.
\par }{\b Swallow Whole (Ex): }{If a megalodon begins its turn with an opponent two or more size categories smaller than itself held in its mouth, it can attempt a new grapple check as though trying to pin
 the opponent. If it succeeds, it swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the megalodon, the opponent takes bludgeoning damage equal to the megalodon\rquote 
s bite attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster\rquote s gullet. A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out of the gullet and return to the megalodon\rquote 
s maw, where another successful grapple check is needed to get free. Alternatively, the swallowed creature can attack from inside the gull
et using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon. Dealing at least 25 points of damage to the gizzard (Defense 20) in this way creates an opening large enough to permit escape. Once a single swallowed creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; thus
, another swallowed creature must cut its own way out. A Gargantuan megalodon\rquote s gullet can hold 2 Huge, 8 Large, 32 Medium-size, or 128 Small or smaller opponents.
\par }{\b 
\par Megalodon: }{CR 11; Gargantuan animal; HD 24d8+168; hp 264; Mas 24; Init +2; Spd swim 120 ft.; Defense 20, touch 8, flat-footed 18 (\endash 
4 size, +2 Dex, +12 natural); BAB +18; Grap +36; Atk +24 melee (4d6+10, bite); Full Atk +24/+19/+14/+9 melee (4d6+10, bite); FS 20 ft. by 40 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, keen scent, low-ligh
t vision, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +21, Ref +16, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 15, Con 24, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide \endash 10, Listen +6, Spot +6, Swim +15.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{25\endash 48 HD (Gargantuan); 49\endash 72 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Megalodon: }{CR 17; Colossal animal; HD 49d8+441; hp 637; Mas 28; Init +2; Spd swim 120 ft.; Defense 21, touch 4, flat-footed 19 (\endash 
8 size, +2 Dex, +17 natural); BAB +43; Grap +74; Atk +58 melee (5d6+15, bite); Full Atk +58/+53/+48/+43 melee (5d6+15, bite); FS 
30 ft. by 50 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, keen scent, low-light vision, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +35, Ref +16, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 39, Dex 15, Con 28, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide \endash 10, Listen +6, Spot +6, Swim +20.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MONGOLIAN DEATH WORM
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feat: }{A Mongolian death worm gains Weapon Finesse (bite) as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Death Touch (Su): }{Any creature grappling with a Mongolian death worm must make a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the worm\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) each round or gain one negative level that lasts only until the grapple ends (no saving throw needed for removal).
\par Most Mongolian death worms use this ability purely in self-defense, but some of the larger ones learn that it can be a
\par swift means of killing prey.
\par }{\b Poison (Ex): }{Bite\emdash Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the worm\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier; 1d6 Con/1d6 Con.
\par }{\b Poison Spray (Ex): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, the Mongolian death worm can spray poison in a 15-foot cone. See above for the effects of the poison.
\par }{\b Tremorsense (Ex): }{A Mongolian death worm can automatically sense the location of anything within 60 feet that is in contact with the ground.
\par }{\b 
\par Mongolian Death Worm: }{CR 3; Small magical beast; HD 2d10+6; hp 17; Mas 16; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., burrow 20 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 14 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap \endash 3; Atk +5 melee (1d4\endash 
1 plus poison, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4\endash 1 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., death touch (DC 14), l o w - l i g h t vision, poison (DC 14), poison spray, tremorsense; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will 
\endash 1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 4.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +3, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{3\endash 5 HD (Small); 6\endash 10 HD (Mediumsize); 11\endash 15 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Mongolian Death Worm: }{CR 5; Medium-size magical beast; HD 6d10+24; hp 57; Mas 18; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., burrow 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 12, flatfooted 13 (+2 De
x, +3 natural); BAB +6; Grap +7; Atk +7 melee (1d6+1 plus poison, bite); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+1 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., death touch (DC 17), low-light vision, poison (DC 17), poison spray, tremorsense; AL
 none; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 18, Int 2, Wis 9, Cha 4.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +5, Spot +8.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MONITOR LIZARD
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A monitor lizard measures between 8 inches and 10 feet long, depending on the
 particular species. Sleek and fast, it has a long neck ending in a tapered head, muscular legs, and a long, powerful tail.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Poison (Ex): }{Bite\emdash Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the monitor lizard\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier; 1d6 
Dex/1d6 Dex.
\par }{\b Poison Spray (Ex): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, the monitor lizard can spray poison in a 15-foot cone. See above for the effects of the poison.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{Monitor lizards gain a +4 species bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks. In forested or overgrown areas, the bonus on Hide checks improves to +8.
\par }{\b 
\par Monitor Lizard: }{CR 3; Medium-size animal; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Mas 17; Init +2; Spd 30 ft., swim 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 12, flat-footed 13 (+2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, 
bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Poison, poison spray; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +5, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +9, Hide +7 (+11 in overgrown or forested areas), Listen +4, Move Silently +6, Spot +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{4\endash 5 HD (Medium-size); 6\endash 12 HD (Large).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MONTAUK MONSTER
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Damage Reduction 20/+1 (Su): }{A montauk monster ignores the first 20 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. I
n campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the montauk monster\rquote s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion). 
\par }{\b Elemental: }{Montauk monsters have all the traits common to elementals.
\par }{\b Energy Claw (Ex): }{In addition to its base damage, a Montauk monster\rquote s claw attack deals 1d6 points of electricity damage and 1d6 points of fire damage with a successful hit. 
\par }{\b Energy Form (Ex): }{Montauk monsters are raw energy given sentience. Their bodies and their melee attacks are force effects.
\par }{\b Fast Healing 3: }{A montauk monster heals 3 points of damage per round unless it is reduced to \endash 10 or fewer hit points. This ability does not enable a montauk monster to regrow or reattach severed body parts.
\par }{\b Fire Subtype (Ex): }{A montauk monster is immune to fire damage and takes 50% more damage from cold attacks.
\par }{\b Fuse (Su): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, a montauk monster can cause a creature it has successfully hit with a melee attack to fuse wi
th nearby matter. At the time of the attack, the target creature must be within 5 feet of a solid object with a volume at least equal to its own. (In most cases, the ground or a wall is sufficient.) The target must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 10 + 
1/2 the montauk monster\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be fused with the object and instantly killed. The object\rquote s hardness drops by 2 after the fusion, regardless of the creature\rquote 
s nature or physical makeup. Such an object continues to function normally, but it is usually cosmetically grotesque, with fleshy fingers or a portion of a face projecting from its surface.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Montauk monsters are immune to fire and electricity. They are also immune to force effects such as }{\i mage armor, magic missile, }{and }{\i wall of force. }{
The creatures and their melee attacks pass through such effects unharmed and unhindered.
\par }{\b Invisibility (Su): }{A montauk monster is naturally invisible, as though constantly under the effect of the }{\i invisibility }{spell (caster level 1
0th). Like a subject of that spell, the monster becomes visible upon attacking, but it can reinstate its invisibility as a free action once per round.
\par }{\b 
\par Montauk Monster: }{CR 11; Large elemental (air, fire); HD 9d8+27; hp 67; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 13 (\endash 
1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+6 plus 1d6 fire plus 1d6 electricity, energy claw); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+6 plus 1d6 fire plus 1d6 electricity, 2 energy claws); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reac
h 10 ft; SQ damage reduction 20/+1, darkvision 60 ft., elemental, energy claw, energy form, fast healing 3, fire subtype, fuse (DC 15), immunities, invisibility; AL evil; SV Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 6, Wis 10, Ch
a 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +13, Listen +9, Move Silently +8, Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Lightning Reflexes.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{10\endash 18 HD (Large); 19\endash 27 (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Montauk Monster: }{CR 14; Huge elemental (air, fire); HD 19d8+95; hp 180; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
2 size, +7 natural); BAB +14; Grap +32; Atk +22 melee (2d6+10 plus 1d6 fire plus 1d6 electricity, energy claw); Full Atk +22 melee (2d6+10 plus 1d6 fire plus 1d6 electricity, 2 energy claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 
10 ft; SQ damage reduction 20/+1, darkvision 60 ft., elemental, energy claw, energy form, fast healing 3, fire subtype, fuse (DC 24), immunities, invisibility; AL evil; SV Fort +11, Ref +13, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 30, Dex 11, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 10, Ch
a 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +22, Listen +14, Move Silently +12, Spot +14.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Combat Reflexes, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {MOTHFOLK
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Mothfolk appear as tall, lanky humanoids covered in short, dark fur. Their large wings have a wingspread of over
 20 feet. Their most arresting features are their eyes: large, red, and luminescent, and occasionally described as looking like oversized bicycle reflectors.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{Mothfolk read, write, and speak a language of whistles, squeaks
, and clicks (called Mothfolk, for lack of a better name).
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{A mothfolk projects an aura of fear around itself in a 20-foot radius. Creatures within this area that wish to remain must attempt a Will save (DC 10 + \'bd the mothman\rquote s Hit Dice + it
s Charisma modifier) or be affected as by a }{\i fear }{spell. A mothfolk is immune to the fear auras of other mothfolk.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{Mothfolk gain a +4 species bonus on Balance, Climb, Listen, and Move Silently checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Mothfolk: }{CR 1; Large outsider; HD 2d8; hp 9; Mas 10; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 300 ft. (good); Defense 12, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (\endash 
1 size, +1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +7; Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, 2 claws) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ dar
kvision 60 ft., fear aura  (DC 11); AL mothfolk; SV Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +7, Climb +7, Hide +5, Listen +8, Move Silently +7, Read/Write Mothfolk, Sense Motive +4, Speak Mothfolk, Spot +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Various personal items.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Mothfolk Dedicated Hero 3/Acolyte 3: }{CR 7; Large outsider; HD 2d8 plus 3d6 plus 3d8; hp 33; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 30 ft., fly 300 ft. (good); Defense 17, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
1 size, +2 Dex, +4 class, +2 natural); BAB +6; Grap +11; Atk +6 melee (1d6+1, claw); Full Atk +6 melee (1d6+1, 2 claws) or +7 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ Darkvision 60 ft., divine spell
s, fear aura (DC 14), turn undead; AL mothfolk; SV Fort +8, Ref +8, Will +12; AP 3; Rep +3; Str 12, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 10, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +7, Climb +7, Concentration +6, Hide +5, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +4, Listen +8, Move Silently +7, Read/Write Mothfolk, Sense Motive +4, Speak Mothfolk, Spellcraft +6, Spot +4, Survival +6, Treat Injury +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Mobility, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy, Track.
\par }{\b Talents (Dedicated Hero): }{Aware, skill emphasis (Survival).
\par }{\b Acolyte Spells }{(4/4/3): 0\emdash  }{\i cure minor wounds}{, }{\i detect magical aura}{, }{\i light}{, }{\i resistance}{; 1st\emdash }{\i bane}{, }{\i cause fear}{, }{\i comprehend languages}{, }{\i cure light wounds}{; 2nd\emdash }{\i 
cure moderate wounds}{, }{\i hold person}{, }{\i shatter}{. Caster level 3rd; save DC 12 + spell level.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Various personal items.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {NEOTHELID
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A neothelid is a 50-foot-long, wormlike creature with a mass of tentacles at one end. In the midst of this nest of tentacles is a toothy maw. The creature has no eyes or other sensory organs as such, though it unerringly senses the location of prey.

\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{
A neothelid is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects within 500 feet by nonvisual means. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the neothelid.
\par }{\b Breath Weapon (Su): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, a neothelid can breathe a 50-foot cone of acid that deals 14d10 points of acid damage to every creature in its area. A successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the neothelid\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) halves the damage.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 15/+2 (Su): }{A neothelid ignores the first 15 points of damage dealt by any weapon with a magical bonus lower than +2. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the neothelid\rquote s damage reduction or ap
ply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i charm person}{, }{\i clairaudience/ clairvoyance}{, }{\i detect thoughts}{, }{\i levitate}{, }{\i suggestion}{, }{\i telekinesis}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + neothelid\rquote 
s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the neothelid must hit a single opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with two tentacle rake attacks in the same round. If it gets a hold, it au
tomatically deals damage for two tentacle rakes each round that the hold is maintained, and it can swallow in the next round.
\par }{\b Swallow Whole (Ex): }{If a neothelid begins its turn with an opponent two or more size categories smaller than itself held in its mo
uth, it can attempt a new grapple check as though trying to pin the opponent. If it succeeds, it swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the neothelid, the opponent takes bludgeoning damage equal to the neothelid\rquote 
s tentacle rake attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster\rquote s gizzard.
\par A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out of the gizzard and return to the neothelid\rquote s maw, where another successful grapple check is needed to get f
ree. Alternatively, the swallowed creature can attack from inside the gizzard using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon. Dealing at least 25 points of damage to the gizzard (Defense 20) in this way creates an opening large enough to permit escape. On
ce a single swallowed creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; thus, another swallowed creature must cut its own way out. A Gargantuan neothelid\rquote s gizzard can hold 2 Large, 8 Medium-size, 32 Small, or 128 Tiny or smaller opponents.
\par }{\b 
\par Neothelid: }{CR 18; Gargantuan aberration; HD 25d8+200; hp 312; Mas 27; Init +2; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 19, touch 4, flatfooted 19 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +15 natural); BAB +18; Grap +40; Atk +25 melee (2d6+10, tentacle rake); Full Atk +25 melee (2d6+10, 4 tentacle rakes); FS 20 ft.
 by 20 ft. (coiled); Reach 20 ft.; SQ blindsight 500 ft., breath weapon (DC 30), damage reduction 15/+2, improved grab, power resistance 25, }{\i psionics, }{
swallow whole; AL evil; SV Fort +16, Ref +6, Will +16; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 30, Dex 7, Con 27, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 9.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +38, Listen +30, Swim +35.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack, Sunder, Weapon Focus (tentacle rake).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{26\endash 45 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {NIGHT TERROR
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A night terror stands 5 to 6 feet tall and weighs between 120 and 200
 pounds. Although it is always horrific and feral, the details of the creature\rquote s appearance can vary widely. The typical specimen is almost impossible to describe because it can alter its appearance based on the specific fears of its victim.
\par }\pard\plain \s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel5\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feat: }{A night terror gains Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Chosen Victim (Ex): }{A night terror can feed on the terror of only one individual at a time. Once it chooses its victim, it can choose another only upon the death of the previous victim or by making a successful Will save (DC 25).
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{A night terror projects a frightful aura that affects all creatures within 30 feet. Creatures in the area that can see the night terror must make a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the night terror\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). Those that fail the save are shaken. The night terror\rquote s chosen victim is left cowering instead of shaken. Creatures that successfully save against a night terror\rquote 
s fear aura cannot be affected by that particular night terror\rquote s fear aura for 24 hours.
\par }{\b Immune to Fear (Ex): }{Night terrors are immune to fear effects.
\par }{\b Selective Invisibility (Su): }{Once the night terror has chosen its victim, only that individual can see it. To everyone else, the creature is invisible, as the }{\i invisibility }{
spell (caster level 10th). If the night terror attacks anyone, it becomes visible to all viewers until the next sunrise.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A night terror gains a +4 species bonus on Intimidate and Sense Motive checks during the night. It loses these bonuses during daylight hours.
\par }{\b Terrify (Su): }{Once per night as a full-round action, the night terror can try to feed upon the fear of its chosen}{\fs16  }{victim. The victim must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the night terror\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma m
odifier) or take 1d4 points of Wisdom damage. The night terror can attempt to use this ability only if it has already successfully used its fear aura against the target. If this Wisdom damage would cause the chosen victim\rquote 
s Wisdom score to fall below 0, the victim must make another Will save. Success leaves the victim\rquote s Wisdom score at 0; failure means the victim dies on the spot.
\par }{\b Vulnerability (Ex): }{Each night terror has a specific irrational weakness that varies with the individual. For each night terror,
 roll on Table: Sources of Weakness on. Regardless of its nature, the weakness has overpowering strength (Will save DC 20) and causes the aversion effect.
\par }{\b 
\par Night Terror: }{CR 2; Medium-size fey; HD 3d6; hp 10; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 12, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +2 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 
20, cleaver); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +2 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 20, cleaver) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
; SQ chosen victim, fear aura (DC 14), immune to fear, low-light vision, selective invisibility, terrify (DC 14), vulnerability (any one); AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +2, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +3; Str 13, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 17.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +6, Climb +3, Disguise +5, Escape Artist +2, Hide +4, Intimidate +13, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +6, Move Silently +5, Search +3, Sense Motive +13, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Initiative, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Cleaver, collection of beheaded dolls.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Night Terror Dedicated Hero 2/Charismatic Hero 3: }{CR 7; Medium-size fey; HD 3d6 plus 2d6 plus 2d6; hp 24; Mas 10; Init +5; Spd 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 14
 (+1 Dex, +3 class, +1 natural); BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d4+1, claw) or +4 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 20, cleaver); Full Atk +4 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +4 melee (1d6+1/19\endash 
20, cleaver) or +4 ranged (2d6, Colt M1911); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ chosen
 victim, fear aura (DC 17), immune to fear, low-light vision, selective invisibility, terrify (DC 17), vulnerability (laughter of children); AL evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +9; AP 2; Rep +6; Str 13, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 18.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +
10, Climb +3, Disguise +9, Escape Artist +2, Hide +4, Intimidate +17, Knowledge (behavioral science) +12, Knowledge (popular culture) +7, Listen +11, Move Silently +5, Read/ Write English, Search +3, Sense Motive +13, Speak English, Spot +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Dodge, Improved Initiative, Point Blank Shot, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Renown, Simple Weapon Proficiency.
\par }{\b Talents (Dedicated Hero): }{Empathy.
\par }{\b Talents (Charismatic Hero): }{Fast-talk, dazzle.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Colt M1911 (.45 autoloader), cleaver, talking clown doll.
\par }{\fs24 
\par REVENANT }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }{A revenant appears much as it did in life. Although the
\par decay and stench of a dead body are lacking, its skin has a
\par deathly pallor. Its body typically shows subtle or obvious
\par signs of its manner of death. A revenant understands
\par that it is dead and seeks to hide this fact from
\par anyone who might see it, so it rarely moves about in the
\par daylight and avoids brightly illuminated areas. Those who
\par knew the revenant in life usually recognize it. The revenant
\par retains its memories and habits, but it seems colder and
\par more emotionally distant than it once was. Astute observers
\par might also note that the revenant is nimbler than it once
\par was.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Revenant\'94 is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal living creature that has 
both an Intelligence score and a Charisma score greater than 6 (referred to hereafter as the \'93base creature\'94). The creature\rquote s type changes to undead. It uses all the base creature\rquote 
s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +2.
\par }{\b Hit Dice: }{Change to d12.
\par }{\b Speed: }{The base creature\rquote s speeds increase by +10 feet each.
\par }{\b Defense: }{The base creature\rquote s natural armor bonus improves by +4.
\par }{\b Special Qualities: }{A revenant retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Revenant Regeneration (Ex): }{The base creature loses the regeneration and fast healing special qualities if it had them and gains revenant regeneration instead. Only damage that matches the revenant\rquote 
s special vulnerability (see below) actually reduces its hit points. However, damage of other sorts does have an effect. Track the creature\rquote s nonvulnerability damage separately from its hit points. When that damage equals or exceeds its actual curr
ent hit point total, it falls prone and is immobile and helpless for 2d6 rounds.
\par During this time, any further damage dealt to it heals instantly. When this time elapses, the revenant arises to fight again, and its nonvulnerability damage tally is wiped clean. Note that damage matching the revenant\rquote 
s special vulnerability reduces its revenant regeneration damage threshold by reducing its actual hit points.
\par }{\i Special Vulnerability (Ex): }{Each revenant has a special vulnerability related to the way it died. Any attack that deals the kind of damage that caused the revenant\rquote 
s original death deals damage to the creature normally. Should the revenant reach 0 hit points from such damage, it is destroyed. Possible damage types include acid, electricity, fire, cold, soni
c/concussion, slashing, piercing, bludgeoning, and ballistic.
\par A revenant that died from poison, starvation, suffocation, or some other cause that does not cause hit point damage is instead vulnerable to some danger that frightened it in life or some means 
of death that it meted out to others. Choose one of the damage types above for its special vulnerability on that basis.
\par If the revenant was killed by an attack that dealt multiple types of damage, only one of those damage types counts as its special vulner
ability. If the revenant is subjected to another such mixed-damage attack, it takes hit point damage only from the type to which it is vulnerable.
\par }{\i Turn Resistance (Ex): }{A revenant is treated as an undead with Hit Dice equal to the base creature\rquote s Hit Dice 
+3 for the purpose of turn or rebuke attempts. This turn resistance increases by an additional +2 when it sees a creature upon which it wishes to take revenge and decreases by \endash 
2 while it is within sight of its vulnerability fear (see below). These modifiers stack.
\par }{\i Undead: }{Revenants have the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\i Vulnerability Fear (Ex): }{A revenant is terrified of any specific items directly associated with its cause of death. Only something directly associated with the revenant\rquote s death ca
n cause this fear; the creature cannot be deceived by illusions or duplicates. When the revenant sees the item it fears, it must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 15) or be shaken for 24 hours. Success leaves it shaken for only 1d4 rounds. If that item i
s
 used to deal damage to the revenant that matches its special vulnerability, the revenant must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 20) or be panicked for 1 minute and shaken for 24 hours thereafter. Success indicates that the revenant is shaken for 1 minut
e. The time that a revenant is shaken or panicked from this effect does not stack.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{Revenge becomes the revenant\rquote s sole purpose. Any allegiances that would interfere with that goal are sublimated or abandoned (GM\rquote s choice).
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A revenant gains the following ability score increases: Str +4, Dex +6, Cha +4. As an undead creature, a revenant has no Constitution score and uses its Charisma modifier for all Constitution and Constitution-based checks.
\par }{\b Skills: }{A revenant gains a +8 species bonus on Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Intimidate, Jump, Listen, Move Silently, Sense Motive, Spot, and Tumble checks. It can use Tumble as though it had ranks in the skill, even if i
t was untrained in life. A human revenant retains the extra skill points afforded to all humans. 
\par }{\b Feats: }{A revenant receives Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Quick Draw, Quick Reload, and Run as bonus feats, assuming the base creature meets the prerequisites and doesn\rquote 
t already have these feats. A human revenant keeps the extra feat it gained as a 1st-level human character.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Revenant Police Officer (Human Strong Ordinary 1/ Dedicated Ordinary 1): }{CR 3; Medium-size undead; HD 2d12; hp 11; Mas \emdash 
; Init +8; Spd 35 ft.; Defense 24, touch 16, flat-footed 20 (+4 Dex, +2 class, +4 natural, +4 concealable vest); BAB +1; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d3+4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5 melee (1d4+4, tonfa) or +5 ra
nged (2d6, Beretta 92F) or +5 ranged (2d8, Beretta M3P); Full Atk +5 melee (1d3+4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5 melee (1d4+4, tonfa) or +5 ranged (2d6, Beretta 92F) or +5 ranged (2d8, Beretta M3P); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., 
revenant regeneration, special vulnerability (bludgeoning), turn resistance, undead, vulnerability (criminal\rquote s sawed-off shotgun); AL any; SV Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +1; Str 19, Dex 18; Con \emdash , Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Law enforcement (class skills: Drive, Intimidate).
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +9*, Climb +11*, Drive +6, Escape Artist +9*, Hide +9*, Intimidate +11, Investigate +2, Jump +9*, Knowledge (current events) +2, Knowledge (streetwise) +2, Knowledge (tactics) +2, Listen +10, Move Silently
 +9*, Profession +4, Read/Write English, Sense Motive +12, Speak English, Spot +12, Swim +5, Treat Injury +4, Tumble +9*.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Quick Draw, Quick Reload, Run, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Concealable vest, Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 9mm ammunition, Beretta M3P (12-gauge shotgun), 10 12-gauge shotgun rounds, tonfa, various gear and personal possessions.
\par *}{\i Includes \endash 3 armor penalty for concealable vest.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ROBOT
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Robots are manufactured, remote-controlled constructs powered by batteries. These highly useful machines come in a variety of sizes and shapes and can be fitted with tools or weapons. Techies create robots\emdash 
for rules on this process, refer to the Techie advanced class}{\i .
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Construct: }{Robots have the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b Speed: }{A robot\rquote s speed depends on its size and method of locomotion (bipedal, quadrupedal, tracked, or wheeled). The different speeds are given with each robot\rquote s statistics (below).
\par }{\b Attacks: }{A robot is not normally equipped with weapons. Robots fitted with arms or similar manipulators can attempt to grapple things, but only robots of Medium-size or larger can use their manipulators to deal damage.
\par }{\b Skills: }{A character with four or more levels in the Techie advanced class can program one or more ranks of a single skill into a robot; otherwise, the robot has no skills.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Building a Robot
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Follow these two steps to create Small or Medium-size robots.
\par }{\b 1. Wealth Check: }{The purchase DC for the components needed to construct a robot is based on its size category.
\par Make a Wealth check to purchase and gather the necessary components before starting construction.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Size \cell }\pard\plain \s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel6\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Purchase DC\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Small \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {
Medium-size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {24\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2508\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {

\par }{\b 2. Construct Frame: }{The robot\rquote s body determines its size, shape, locomotion, and hit points. The DC of the required Craft (mechanical) check is set by the robot\rquote s size and modified by the mode of locomotion selected (see
 the Techie advanced class description).
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335
\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Size \cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Craft (mechanical) DC\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Small \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {18\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium-size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {21\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3335\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {In addition to the external components noted in the Techie advanced class description}{\i , }{a Techie can add additional components, weapons, and armor plating to a
 robot. Refer to the table below to find the DC modifier for adding new
\par components to a robot.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337
\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Components \cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {DC Modifier\cell 
}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\pard\plain \s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0 
\i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Frame Shape and Locomotion\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3337\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Articulated frame \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+5\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337
\pard\plain \s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {External Components\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Accessory mount \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Loading mechanism \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Basic toolkit \cell 
}\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Basic electrical kit \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3337\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Searchlight \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+1\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337
\pard\plain \s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel7\rin0\lin0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Armor\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Natural armor bonus +2 \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {+2*\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2026\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3337\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {*This component can be purchased a number of times equal to the robot\rquote 
s size category (counted up from Diminutive).
\par }{\b Articulated Frame: }{This robot\rquote s body is articulated so that it
 can move like a snake, slithering through narrow openings and navigating stairs with ease. A robot with this frame moves as fast as a bipedal robot, but it can also move through difficult terrain and small spaces without slowing.
\par }{\b Accessory Mount: }{A robot with an accessory mount can be armed with a single weapon or accessory up to one size category larger than itself. Such a robot can fire a weapon using its normal attack modifier or via a remote, using the operator\rquote 
s attack modifier with a \endash 4 penalty. Alternatively, an accessory mount can hold a single grenade, or nearly any of the items on Table: General Equipment}{\i .
\par }{\b Loading Mechanism: }{A robot with a loading mechanism can reload a single weapon with a full-round action. The mechanism holds enough ammunition 
to reload the weapon three times, and it works with weapons that use box ammunition, speed-loaders (but not loose bullets), a grenade launcher round, or some sort of fuel tank (such as a flamethrower). A robot can have multiple loading mechanisms, one for
 each weapon that it has mounted in its frame.
\par }{\b Toolkits: }{A robot can use a toolkit if it has the appropriate skill or can use the operator\rquote s skill at a \endash 2 penalty via remote control.
\par }{\b Searchlight: }{A searchlight operates in the same manner as a battery flood spotlight.
\par }{\b 
\par Small Robot: }{CR 1/2; Small construct; HD 1d10+5; hp 10; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 30 ft. (treads), 30 ft. (bipedal), 40 ft. (quadrupedal), or 50 ft. (wheels); Defense 11, touch 11, flatfooted 11 (+1 size); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
4; Atk +1 melee; Full Atk +1 melee or +1 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 10, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None (unless programmed by a Techie).
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b External Components: }{Audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Medium-Size Robot: }{CR 1; Medium-sized construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 30 ft. (treads), 30 ft. (bipedal), 40 ft. (quadrupedal), or 50 ft. (wheels); Defense 9, touch 9, flat-footed 9 (\endash 1 Dex); B
AB +1; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref \endash 1, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 8, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 10.

\par }{\b Skills: }{None (unless programmed by a Techie).
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b External Components: }{Audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Police Assault Drone*: }{CR 1; Medium-sized construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 30 ft. (treads); Defense 13, touch 9, flat-footed 13 (\endash 
1 Dex, +4 armor); BAB +1; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, claw) or +2 ranged (2d8, Mossberg shotgun); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref \endash 1, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 8, Co
n \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Disable Device +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b External Components: }{Armor (+4), audio/visual sensor, manipulator arms, 2 accessory mounts, Mossberg shotgun, autoloader, tear gas grenade, searchlight, remote control link (200 feet).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par *}{\i This robot requires a successful Wealth check (DC 21) and a successful Craft (mechanical) check (DC 32) to create.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ROD
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A rod is an insect with a sticklike body about 1 foot long. Short, undulating wings run the entire length of its form, a
llowing it to dart and maneuver quickly.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Ballistic Path (Ex): }{A rod reacts to the presence of a psionic creature by flying toward it at extremely high speed.
\par As a full-round action, a rod can move up to 200 feet in a straight line, attacking
 with a +2 bonus (for a total melee attack bonus of +6). If it hits, the rod deals 2d8 points of ballistic damage to the target, but it is destroyed by the impact. Except as noted here, this attack is treated as a charge.
\par }{\b\i Detect Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{A rod is automatically aware of psionic creatures or powers within 60 feet, as though constantly under the effect of the }{\i detect psionics }{power.
\par }{\b Invisible to Naked Eye (Ex): }{A rod moves too fast to be seen by the naked eye, except as a blur of motion. It can be seen only as a recorded image on high-speed film or videotape, or via some similar means of recording fast-moving objects.
\par }{\b Vermin: }{A rod has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. It is immune to mind-affecting effects and gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Rod: }{CR 1/4; Diminutive vermin; HD 1/8 d8; hp 1; Mas 4; Init +4; Spd fly 100 ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 18, flat-footed 14 (+4 size, +4 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 17; Atk \endash 1 melee (1d2\endash 5, bite); Full Atk \endash 1 melee (1d2\endash 
5, bite); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ ballistic path, darkvision 60 ft., }{\i detect psionics}{, invisible to naked eye, vermin; AL none; SV Fort \endash 1, Ref +4, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 18, Con 4, Int \emdash , Wis 11, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +4, Move Silently +8, Spot +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ROGUE TULPA
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Shamans and students of psychic powers have for centuries practiced the creation of tulpas\emdash 
spirit duplicates that are indistinguishable from their creators and can operate independently of t
hem. Only the most accomplished shamans can make tulpas. However, a few deranged individuals, brimming with latent psychic power, have somehow managed to create tulpas spontaneously, with no training whatsoever. Such a \'93rogue tulpa\'94
 is a psychic construct bent on murder and fueled by rage. Although it knows the inner workings of its creator\rquote s mind, a rogue tulpa exists independently, feeding on the mental energies of other beings while it acts out its creator\rquote 
s most psychotic whims and desires.
\par Standing as much as 10 feet tall and weighing more than 500 pounds, a rogue tulpa is a horrifying sight. Despite its warty hide, daggerlike teeth, and sickle-sharp claws, the tulpa\rquote s features vaguely resemble those of its original creator\emdash 
enough so that someone who survives a close encounter with the tulpa could, theoretically, identify the creator.
\par If a rogue tulpa\rquote s creator dies, the creature continues to act on its own, carrying out whatever agenda of destruction its creator had last espoused. If its creator died at the hands of another, the rogue tulpa may seek revenge on that person.

\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{A rogue tulpa can read, write, and speak whatever languages its creator can.
\par }{\b Cold Resistance 20 (Ex): }{A rogue tulpa ignores the first 20 points of cold damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+1: }{A rogue tulpa ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the rogue tulpa\rquote s damage reduction or apply it onl
y to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b\i Dimension Door }{\b (Sp): }{A rogue tulpa can use }{\i dimension door }{five times per day (caster level 8th).
\par }{\b Mind Feed (Ex): }{If a rogue tulpa hits with its bite attack, it deals 1d4 points of Intelligence damage in addition to the normal damage for the attack. If this damage reduces the opponent\rquote 
s Intelligence score to 0, all unrestored Intelligence damage dealt to the opponent up until that point becomes Intelligence drain instead.
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i brain lock}{, }{\i telekinesis}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + rogue tulpa\rquote s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b Regeneration 5 (Ex): }{A rogue tulpa regenerates 5 points of damage each round but cannot regenerate fire or acid 
damage. If a rogue tulpa loses a limb or body part, the lost portion regrows in 3d6 minutes. The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by holding it to the stump.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a rogue tulpa to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par 
\par }{\b Rogue Tulpa: }{CR 8; Large monstrous humanoid; HD 6d8+30; hp 57; Mas 21; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 18, touch 10, flatfooted 17 (\endash 1 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, claw); 
Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 claws) and +6 melee (1d6+3 plus 1d4 Int, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold resistance 20, damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision 90 ft., }{\i dimension door, }{mind feed, }{\i psionics, }{
regeneration 5, scent; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 12, Con 21, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +14, Move Silently +3, Read/Write Navajo, Search +8, Speak Navajo, Spot +14.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 24 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Rogue Tulpa: }{CR 10; Huge monstrous humanoid; HD 13d8+91; hp 149; Mas 25; Init +5; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 8, flat-footed 19 (\endash 2 size, +11 natural); BAB +13; Grap +31; Atk +21 melee (2d4+10, claw); Full Atk +21 melee (2d4+10, 2 cla
ws) and +6 melee (1d8+5 plus 1d4 Int, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold resistance 20, damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision 90 ft., }{\i dimension door, }{mind feed, }{\i psionics, }{
regeneration 5, scent; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 10, Con 25, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +16, Move Silently +10, Read/Write Navajo, Search +11, Speak Navajo, Spot +16.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SAND SLAVE }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }{Sand slaves (sometimes called sandmen or cyberslaves) are intelligent creatures that have been transformed into cybernetic slaves of the etoile (see the \'93Etoile\'94
 entry above). A sand slave looks much like it did before its transformation, though it is stronger, faster, and healthier than before.
\par Although a sand slave is superficially similar to its previous self, its biology has been significantly altered, and portions of its DNA have been replaced. X-rays reveal the presence of hair-thin wires running throughout the sand slave\rquote 
s body and silicon structures that support bones and joints. Microscopic examination of the creature\rquote s blood reveals tiny nannites\emdash microscopic machines\emdash busily altering their host\rquote 
s body structure, and brain scans reveal more bioelectric activity than normal.
\par Sand slaves retain the knowledge, skills, and personalities they had before succumbing to the nannites, but their allegiances change. Now totally loyal to the etoile, sand slaves only feign loyalty to those they once knew and loved, using the trust of
 such people to their own advantage.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Sand slave\'94
 is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal living creature with an Intelligence score of 6 or higher that is susceptible to disease (referred to hereafter as the \'93base creature\'94
). The creature retains its original type. It uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +2.
\par }{\b Speed: }{The base creature\rquote s speeds increase by +10 feet each.
\par }{\b Special Qualities: }{A sand slave retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Darkvision (Ex): }{A sand slave has darkvision to a range of 60 feet or the base creature\rquote s darkvision, whichever is better.
\par }{\i Electricity Resistance 10 (Ex): }{A sand slave ignores the first 10 points of electricity damage from any single attack. If the base creature already has electricity resistance, use the better value.
\par }{\i Fast Ability Healing 1 (Ex): }{A sand slave heals ability damage at the rate of 1 ability score point per damaged ability per round.
\par }{\i Fast Healing 3 (Ex): }{A sand slave heals 3 points of damage per round unless it is reduced to \endash 10 or fewer hit points. This ability does not enable the sand slave to regrow or reattach sev
ered body parts. If the base creature already has fast healing, use the better value.
\par }{\i Fortification (Ex): }{A sand slave has a 50% chance to ignore the extra damage from a critical hit.
\par }{\i Fugue (Ex): }{Once per day as a free action, a sand slave may attempt a Co
nstitution check (DC 20). Success indicates that the sand slave has forced its nannites into hyperproductivity, thereby gaining an extra attack or move action each round for 1d8+2 rounds.
\par }{\i Hot Running (Ex): }{Once per day as a free action, a sand slave can ma
ke a Constitution check (DC 15) to reverse the effects of fatigue and nonlethal damage. A successful check negates all nonlethal damage the sand slave has sustained and reduces fatigue or exhaustion as if the sand slave had rested for a full day.
\par }{\i Immunities (Ex): }{The sand slave is immune to disease and poison. The nannites in its body fight off all diseases, including other nannite infections, and break down all poisons before they can take effect.
\par }{\i Network Mind (Ex): }{A sand slave is automatically aware of t
he position and general emotional status of any other sand slaves within 200 feet. All sand slaves within that range that can see one another are in constant telepathic communication. If one is aware of a particular threat, they all are. If one sand slave
 in a particular group is not flatfooted, none of them are. No sand slave in such a group is considered flanked unless they all are.
\par }{\i Self-Destruct (Ex): }{When reduced to \endash 10 hit points or below, a sand slave\rquote s body immediately turns into a pile of dust. At a
ny time, a sand slave can willfully destroy itself by taking an attack action to make a Constitution check (DC 10). Success indicates that the sand slave self-destructs as above.
\par }{\i Stasis (Ex): }{Once per day as a free action, a sand slave can attempt a Constitution check (DC 15). Success dramatically slows the creature\rquote 
s metabolism for up to 1 hour. During this time, the sand slave does not need to breathe, and it lacks a heartbeat and normal body temperature. If it does not move, it appears dead to casual ins
pection, though a blood test or successful Treat Injury check (DC 20) reveals that it is still alive. While in stasis, the sand slave does not take damage from prolonged exposure to environmental heat or cold, and the time spent in stasis does not count t
oward the time limit that the sand slave can go without water or food before taking damage. While in stasis, a sand slave can act normally, except that it cannot use its hot running or fugue abilities, and it does not heal ability or hit point damage.

\par The sand slave can end the stasis at any time before its duration runs out as a free action.
\par }{\i Telepathy (Ex): }{A sand slave can communicate its thoughts and desires to any etoile or sand slave within 200 feet that it can see, regardless of intervening matter such as glass. The target creature \'93hears\'94 the sand slave\rquote 
s thoughts in whatever language it can most easily understand. However, it cannot communicate thoughts back to the sand slave unless it also has telepathy.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{A sand slave is totally dedicated
 to the etoile, but when not acting under any particular orders, it maintains the allegiances that the base creature had. This allegiance hierarchy allows the etoile to use sand slaves as sleeper agents. Sand slaves follow the orders of all etoile and giv
e precedence to the last orders they received.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A sand slave gains the following ability increases: Str +2, Dex +2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{A sand slave gains a +4 species bonus on Bluff checks.
\par }{\b Feats: }{A sand slave gains Improved Damage Threshold as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b 
\par Sand Slave Terrorist (Human Tough Ordinary 3/Smart Ordinary 3): }{CR 7; Medium-size humanoid; HD 3d10+6 plus 3d6+6; hp 39; Mas 18; Init +2; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 15, flat-footed
 15 (+2 Dex, +3 class, +2 light undercover shirt); BAB +3; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5 melee (1d4+2, pistol whip) or +5 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10); Full Atk +5 melee (1d3+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +5 melee (1d4+2,
 
pistol whip) or +5 ranged (2d6, MAC Ingram M10); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., electricity resistance 20, fast ability healing 1, fast healing 3, fortification, fugue, hot running, immunities, network mind, selfdestruct, stasis, tel
epathy; AL etoile; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +3; AP 3; Rep +2; Str 14, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 8.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Military (class skills: Navigate, Pilot).
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +7, Computer Use +5, Craft (chemical) +7, Craft (electronic) +7, Craft (mechanic
al) +7, Craft (structural) +7, Demolitions +8, Disguise +3, Drive +5, Forgery +6, Gather Information +1, Intimidate +3, Knowledge (current events) +6, Knowledge (tactics) +5, Knowledge (technology) +6, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +4, Navigate +4, 
Pilot +5, Profession +4, Read/ Write English, Repair +4, Research +5, Search +4, Speak English.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Advanced Firearms Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Deceptive, Improved Damage Threshold, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Point Blank Shot, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Tactical vest, Beretta 92F (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of 9mm ammunition, Beretta M3P (12-gauge shotgun) 10 12-gauge shotgun rounds, tonfa, various gear and personal possessions.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SASQUATCH
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A sasquatch stands 8 to 10 feet ta
ll and weighs about 300 pounds. It has long, tawny fur and beady black eyes. A sasquatch has an oppressive, bestial stink that frightens domestic animals.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{Sasquatches speak Weren\emdash a language of growls, rumbles, and snorts.
\par }{\b Species Bonuses: }{Because of its size and ferocious appearance, a sasquatch gains a +4 species bonus on Intimidate checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Sasquatch (Weren): }{CR 2; Large giant; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Mas 17; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 11, touch 8, flat-footed 11 (\endash 1 size, \endash 1
 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d4+6, slam); Full Atk +7 melee (1d4+6, 2 slams); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision; AL any; SV Fort +6, Ref \endash 
1, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 9, Con 17, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +8, Intimidate +4, Listen +5, Speak Weren, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Sasquatch Strong Hero 3/Soldier 3: }{CR 8; Large giant; HD 3d8+12 plus 3d8+12 plus 3d10+12; hp 72; Mas 21; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 16 (\endash 
1 size, +4 class, +3 natural); BAB +7; Grap +17; Atk +13 melee (1d4+9, slam); Full Atk +13 melee (1d4+9, 2 slams) or +6 ranged (1d10/19\endash 20, crossbow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ low-light vision; AL anyV Fort +7, Ref \endash 
1, Will +2; AP 3; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 10, Con 18, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Military (class skills: Hide, Move Silently).
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +8, Hide +0, Intimidate +4, Knowledge (tactics) +1, Listen +5, Move Silently +3, Speak Weren, Spot +5, Survival +2.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Cleave, Combat Martial Arts, Great Cleave, Improved Combat Martial Arts, Improved Damage Threshold, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Focus (slam), Weapon Specialization (slam).
\par }{\b Talents (Strong Hero): }{Ignore hardness, melee smash.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Crossbow, 20 bolts.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SATANIC ICHOR
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A 13-gallon canister of satanic ichor weighs 250 pounds. A typical canister has hardness 5, 15 hit points, and a break DC of 18. If the canister sports a lock, the l
ock is usually high quality (Open Lock DC 30). Once released from its canister, satanic ichor can crawl across surfaces or float through the air with ease.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{Satanic ichor is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects w
ithin 120 feet by nonvisual means. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the satanic ichor.
\par }{\b Corrupt the Mind (Su): }{As an attack action, satanic ichor can }{\i dominate }{any creature it can contact telepathically (as the }{\i domination }{
psionic power manifested by a 10th-level Telepath). A successful Will save (DC 18) negates the effect and protects the creature against further domination attempts by the satanic ichor for 24 hours. Satanic ichor trapped within a container will typically 
use a }{\i dominated }{creature to break the container that confines it. Freed satanic ichor will typically use a dominated creature as a vessel (see below) or thrall to attract other potential thralls.
\par }{\b Immunities: }{Satanic ichor is immune to all weapons except ones that deal energy damage.
\par }{\b Ooze: }{Satanic ichor has the traits and immunities common to all oozes.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{Satanic ichor can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b Vessel of Flesh (Su): }{If it succeeds at an attack roll against a living creature, satanic ichor can enter the creature\rquote 
s body through one or more orifices (usually the mouth, nostrils, or ears) or an open wound. The target gets a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the satanic ichor\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma 
modifier) to keep the satanic ichor from entering and taking control of its body. If the save fails, the satanic ichor seizes control of the creature\rquote s body, using it as a vessel to commit murder and other atrocities. A }{\i remove curse }{
spell can expel satanic ichor from a creature\rquote s body, but the caster must succeed at a level check (1d20 + caster level) or the spell fails (DC 10 + 1/2 the satanic ichor\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). The creature possessed by satanic ichor has no memory of the possession
 once the satanic ichor is expelled. If the host drops to 0 or fewer hit points, the satanic ichor inside spills out through the mouth, ears, and nostrils and tries to commandeer a new \'93vessel\'94
 as quickly as possible. While possessing a creature, satanic ichor cannot be attacked directly.
\par A living creature possessed by satanic ichor takes 1d2 points of temporary Constitution damage per day, or 1d6 points per day if the satanic ichor\rquote s size category is larger than its host\rquote s. The Constitution damage cannot b
e healed until the satanic ichor is expelled.
\par }{\b 
\par Satanic Ichor: }{CR 4; Small ooze; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 10 ft., climb 10 ft., fly 20 ft. (average); Defense 11 (+1 size), touch 11, flat-footed 11; BAB +1; Grap +0; Atk +1 melee touch (1d4\endash 1 pl
us special, slam); Full Atk +1 melee touch (1d4\endash 
1 plus special, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 120 ft., corrupt the mind, immunities, traits, telepathy, vessel of flesh; AL evil; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 9, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 18, Wis 17, Cha 18.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{3\endash 5 HD (Small); 6\endash 9 HD (Medium-size); 10\endash 15 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Satanic Ichor: }{CR 10; Medium-size ooze; HD 8d10+36; hp 80; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 10 ft., climb 10 ft., fly 20 ft. (average); Defense 11 (\endash 
1 Dex, +2 natural), touch 9, flatfooted 11; BAB +6; Grap +9; Atk +9 melee touch (1d6+4 plus special, slam); Full Atk +9/+4 melee touch (1d6+4 plus special, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ blindsight 120 ft., corrupt the mi
nd (DC 18), immunities, ooze, telepathy, vessel of flesh (DC 18); AL evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +1, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 9, Con 15, Int 18, Wis 17, Cha 18. }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SCORPION
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feats: }{A scorpion gains Weapon Finesse (claw) and Weapon Finesse (sting) as bonus feats.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the scorpion must hit an opponent of any size category with its claw attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals claw damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can sting in the same round.

\par }{\b Poison (Ex): }{Sting\emdash Fortitude negates; save DC 13; 1d4 Con/1d4 Con.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A scorpion gains a +4 species bonus on Climb, Hide, and Spot checks.
\par }{\b Vermin: }{A scorpion has darkvision out to a range of 30 feet. It is immune to mind-affecting effects and gains a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Scorpion: }{CR 1/4; Fine vermin; HD 1/4 d8; hp 2; Mas 4; Init +0; Spd 10 ft.; Defense 20, touch 18, flat-footed 20 (+8 size, +2 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 20; Atk +8 melee (1d2\endash 4, claw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d2\endash 
4, 2 claws) and +3 melee (1d2\endash 4 plus poison, sting); FS 6 in. by 6 in.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ darkvision 30 ft., improved grab, poison, vermin; AL none; SV Fort \endash 1, Ref +0, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 2, Dex 10, Con 4, Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 2.

\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +4, Hide +15, Spot +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Weapon Finesse (claw), Weapon Finesse (sting).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SEA SERPENT
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A sea serpent has a snakelike body between 30 and 200 feet long. Other features may vary with the individual creature\emdash 
 some sea serpents have slender fins like those of an eel, while others have completely smooth bodies. The head of one may be shaped like a horse, another like a seal. 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits}{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Hazy Outline (Su): }{Part of 
the reason that so few sea serpents have ever been spotted or photographed is that they can make their forms indistinct and thereby blend into the lapping waves. As a full-round action, a sea serpent can blur its outline for a number of rounds equal to it
s Hit Dice. This distortion grants the sea serpent one-half concealment (20% miss chance). A sea serpent cannot be recorded on any visual media while in this state\emdash a photograph shows only a fuzzy haze. A }{\i see invisibility }{
spell does not counteract this effect, but a }{\i true seeing }{spell does.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the sea serpent must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage each round that the ho
ld is maintained, and it can swallow in the next round.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{The sea serpent\rquote s coloration and shape grant it a +10 species bonus on Hide checks made while it is in water.
\par }{\b Swallow Whole (Ex): }{If a sea serpent begins its turn with an opponent two o
r more size categories smaller than itself held in its mouth, it can attempt a new grapple check as though trying to pin the opponent. If it succeeds, it swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the sea serpent, the opponent t
akes bludgeoning damage equal to the serpent\rquote s tail slap attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster\rquote 
s gullet. A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out of the gullet and return to the sea serpent\rquote s maw, wher
e another successful grapple check is needed to get free. Alternatively, the swallowed creature can attack from inside the gullet using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon. Dealing at least 20 points of damage to the gullet (Defense 25) in this way c
reates an opening large enough to permit escape. Once a single swallowed creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; thus, another swallowed creature must cut its own way out. A Huge sea serpent\rquote 
s gullet can hold 2 Medium-size, 8 Small, 32 Tiny, or 128 Diminutive or smaller opponents.
\par }{\b 
\par Sea Serpent: }{CR 7; Huge magical beast; HD 9d10+27; hp 76; Mas 17; Init +7; Spd swim 60 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 12 (\endash 2 size, +3 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +9; Grap +25; Atk +15 melee (2d6+8, tail slap); Full Atk 
+15 melee (2d6+8, bite or tail slap); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft. (coiled); Reach 10 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., hazy outline, improved grab, low-light vision, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 16, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 15
, Cha 9.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +0 (+10 in water), Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Initiative, Power Attack.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{10\endash 18 HD (Gargantuan); 19\endash 40 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Sea Serpent: }{CR 10; Colossal magical beast; HD 19d10+133; hp 237; Mas 25; Init +7; Spd swim 60 ft.; Defense 18, touch 5, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
8 size, +3 Dex, +13 natural); BAB +19; Grap +51; Atk +27 melee (4d6+16, tail slap); Full Atk +27 melee (4d6+16, bite or tail slap); FS 30 ft. by 30 ft. (coiled); Reach 15 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., hazy ou
tline, improved grab, low-light vision, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 42, Dex 16, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 9.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide \endash 8 (+2 in water), Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Cleave, Great Cleave, Improved Initiative, Power Attack.
\par }{\fs24 
\par SEWER SLUDGE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{
A sewer sludge is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects within 30 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the sewer sludge.
\par }{\b Camouflage (Ex): }{A motionless sewer sludge looks like nothing more than a pile of rotting garbage. A successful Spot check (DC 15) is required to recognize it as a creature.
\par }{\b Constrict (Ex): }{A sewer sludge deals slam damage (1d6+1 for a typical specimen) with a successful grapple check against a target at least one size category smaller than itself. 
\par }{\b Disease (Ex): }{The touch of a sewer sludge carries typhoid bacillus (Fort DC 13 negates; incubation period 1d3 weeks; initial 1d4 Con; secondary 1d4 Con).
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A sewer sludge is immune to electricity and cold damage. If a cold attack deals damage equal to or greater than the sewer sludge\rquote s Constitution score, the creature is affected as though by a }{\i slow }{spell.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this a
bility, the sewer sludge must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals slam damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.
\par }{\b Ooze}{: A sewer sludge has the traits and immunities common to oozes.
\par }{\b Stench (Ex): }{A creature within 10 feet of a sewer sludge must make a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the sludge\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) or be nauseated. The nausea persists
 for as long as the creature remains within 10 feet of the sewer sludge. A creature that leaves and reenters the area must make another save.
\par }{\b 
\par Sewer Sludge: }{CR 5; Medium-size ooze; HD 4d10+14; hp 36; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 10, flat-f
ooted 10; BAB +3; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d6+1 plus disease, slam); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+1 plus disease, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., disease, camouflage, constrict 1d6+1, immunities, improved grab, ooze, stench (DC 13); 
AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +1, Will \endash 4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 10, Con 13, Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 12 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Sewer Sludge: }{CR 7; Large ooze; HD 8d10+39; hp 83; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 8, flatfooted 10 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +6; Grap +15; Atk +10 melee (1d8+7 plus disease, slam); Full Atk +10/+5 melee (1d8+7 plus disease, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., disease, camouflage, c
onstrict 1d6+1, immunities, improved grab, ooze, stench (DC 17); AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +1, Will \endash 3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 21, Dex 8, Con 17, Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1. 
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SHARK, HUGE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Keen Scent (Ex): }{A Huge shark notices c
reatures by scent in a 180-foot radius. It can detect blood in the water at a range of up to 1 mile.
\par }{\b Wavesense (Ex): }{A shark can automatically sense the location of any object or creature within 80 feet that is in contact with the water.
\par }{\b 
\par Shark, Huge: }{CR 5; Huge animal; HD 10d8+20; hp 65; Mas 15; Init +2; Spd swim 40 ft.; Defense 15, touch 10, flat-footed 13 (\endash 
2 size, +2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +7; Grap +20; Atk +10 melee (2d6+7, bite); Full Atk +10/+5 melee (2d6+7, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; S
Q keen scent, wavesense; AL none; SV Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 21, Dex 15, Con 15, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{11\endash 17 HD (Huge).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SKIN FEASTER
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Languages: }{A skin feaster can read, write, and speak any one language that it could in life.
\par }{\b Bonus Feat: }{A skin feaster gains Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Flesh Weakness (Ex): }{A skin feaster that successfully deals damage to an opponent with its necrotizing touch attack must spend its next turn devouring the flesh that has fallen from that opponent\rquote 
s body. It takes no other actions during this time but can defend itself normally. It can consume an amount of flesh equivalent to 3 points of Constitution damage (or drain; see below) per round.
\par }{\b Necrotizing Touch (Su): }{With a successful melee touch attack, the skin feaster causes lumps of flesh to fall from the target\rquote s body, dealing 1d3 points of Constitution damage; a successful Fortitude save negates (DC 10 + 1/2 the skin feaster
\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). On a failed save, the target must attempt a second Fortitude save at the same DC. Failure indicates that 1 point of the Constitution damage already taken becomes Constitution drain instead.
\par }{\b Skin Regrowth (Su): }{
If a skin feaster manages to eat an amount of flesh equivalent to 6 points of Constitution damage (or drain; see above) in any 24-hour period, it begins to regrow its skin. This process requires 1d6 hours. For the next 1d3 days thereafter, the skin fea
ster appears just as it did before its death, excluding scars, moles, or other minor skin imperfections. Only the creature\rquote s appearance changes\emdash 
it is still an undead with all of its usual species traits except the flesh weakness, which is not active while the skin feaster wears its new skin. Once this period is over, the skin feaster\rquote 
s regrown skin sloughs off, restoring it to its usual appearance and reactivating its flesh weakness.
\par }{\b Undead: }{Skin feasters have the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\b 
\par Skin Feaster: }{CR 3; Medium-size undead; HD 4d12; hp 26; Mas \emdash 
; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 13 (+3 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, claw) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 f
t.; SQ flesh weakness, necrotizing touch (DC 13), skin regrowth, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 16, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +6, Jump +6, Listen +8, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak Language (any one), Spot +8.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{5\endash 8 HD (Medium-size); 9\endash 15 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Skin Feaster: }{CR 5; Large undead; HD 9d12; hp 58; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 16, touch 11, flatfooted 14 (\endash 1 size, +2 Dex, +5 natur
al); BAB +4; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+6, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+6, claw) or +5 ranged; FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ flesh weakness, necrotizing touch (DC 15), skin regrowth, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; St
r 18, Dex 14, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +9, Jump +9, Listen +10, Read/Write (any one), Speak (any one), Spot +10.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Agile Riposte, Dodge, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SNAKE, COBRA
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A typical cobra measures about 12 feet long, but some have been known to grow to as much as 18 feet long. 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits}{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feat: }{Cobras gain Weapon Finesse (bite) as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Poison (Ex): }{Bite\emdash Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the cobra\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier; 1d4 Str, 1d4 Dex/1d4 Str, 1d4 Dex.
\par }{\b Poison Spray (Ex): }{At will as a ranged touch attack, a spitting cobra can spray its venom at a target up to 10 feet away. When used in this manner, the spitting cobra\rquote 
s venom acts as a contact poison. The target must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cobra\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) or be blinded and nauseated for 1 minute. A second Fortitude save must be made 1 minute later to negate the venom\rquote s secondary damage (same as the initial damage). Eye protection, such as gog
gles or a full-face visor, negates the blindness effect.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a cobra to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A cobra receives a +8 species bonus on Move Silently checks and a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, and Spot checks. It applies either its Strength or its Dexterity modifier, whichever is higher, to Climb checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Snake, Cobra: }{CR 2; Medium-size animal; HD 3d8; hp 13; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd 20 ft. (30 ft. for the black mamba), climb 5 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (\endash 
1 size, +3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +5 melee (1d4 plus poison, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d4 plus poison, bite); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. (coiled); Reach 5 ft.; SQ poison (DC 11), poison 
spray (DC 11; spitting cobra only), scent; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 17, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +11, Hide +10, Listen +9, Move Silently +11, Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Weapon Finesse (bite).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {SNAKE, HOOP
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A hoop snake resembles an ordinary snake except that it has a head at either end of its body. It measures some 6 feet long and weighs about 75 pounds.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Constrict (Ex): }{A hoop snake deals bludgeoning damage with a successful gra
pple check against a target its own size category or smaller. The damage equals 1d6 + the snake\rquote s Strength modifier.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the hoop snake must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its bite a
ttack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.
\par }{\b Poison (Ex): }{Bite\emdash Fortitude negates; save DC 10 + 1/2 the snake\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a hoop snake to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A hoop snake receives a +8 species bonus on Balance checks and a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, and Spot checks. It applies its Dexterity modifier instead of its Strength modifier to Climb checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Hoop Snake: }{CR 2; Medium-size animal; HD 3d8+3; hp 16; Mas 13; Init +5; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 16, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+4 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d6+3
 plus poison, bite); Full Atk +5 melee (1d6+3 plus poison, 2 bites); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. (coiled); Reach 5 ft.; SQ constrict 1d6+3, improved grab, poison (DC 12), scent; AL none; SV Fort +4, Ref +8, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 20, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 
12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +7, Climb +8, Hide +8, Listen +4, Spot +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{4\endash 5 HD (Medium-size); 6\endash 12 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Hoop Snake: }{CR 4; Large animal; HD 7d8+21; hp 52; Mas 17; Init +4; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 13, flatfooted 13 (\endash 
1 size, +4 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +5; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d8+7 plus poison, bite); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+7 plus poison, 2 bites); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft. (coiled); Reach 10 ft.; SQ constrict 1d6+7, improved grab, poison (DC 16), scent; AL none; SV 
Fort +8, Ref +9, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 25, Dex 18, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +6, Climb +12, Hide +3, Listen +4, Spot +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {STAR DOPPELGANGER
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {In its natural form, a star doppelganger is a hideous conglomeration of all the creatures it has mimicked over the ages. An individual
\rquote s body may exhibit any combination of features, including fish fins, crab claws, spider legs, shark jaws, bear teeth, a human face, tentacles, and less recognizable appendages of various alien beings
. Its entire form is awash with blood, slime, and stinking ichor of unknown origin. If a star doppelganger once had a shape of its own, that shape has long ago become indistinguishable in the roiling mass of flesh and putrescence that makes up its current
 form.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Absorb (Ex): }{
As a full-round action, a star doppelganger can absorb the body (but not the equipment) of any creature to which it has successfully transferred its flesh (see Flesh Transfer, below). The star doppelganger gains a size cat
egory whenever it has absorbed creatures whose combined size categories equal its own, according to the following equivalencies: Four Tiny creatures equal a Small creature, four Small creatures equal a Medium-size creature, and four Medium-size creatures 
equal a Large creature. Thus, a Huge star doppelganger could have resulted from a Large star doppelganger absorbing one Large creature, four Medium-size creatures, or any mix of sizes that equals Large. The star doppelganger\rquote 
s statistics remain the same aft
er absorption unless it gains a size category. Any hit point or ability damage that the star doppelganger has taken before absorbing its prey still applies to its new statistics. A star doppelganger cannot absorb a creature larger than itself, nor can it 
absorb another star doppelganger.
\par }{\b Alien Physiology (Ex): }{A star doppelganger does not need to eat or sleep the way a normal creature does. It cannot starve or become fatigued. A star doppelganger is not subject to death from massive damage or critical hits.
\par }{\b Cold Resistance 10 (Ex): }{A star doppelganger ignores the first 10 points of cold damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Convert (Ex): }{If desired, a star doppelganger can convert any creature to which it has successfully transferred its flesh (see Flesh Transfer, 
below) into a new star doppelganger as a full-round action. A converted creature becomes in all ways a star doppelganger of the appropriate size category, losing all its own ability scores, Hit Dice, class levels, skills, feats, species traits, and allegi
ances and replacing them with those of a star doppelganger. A creature with less than 1 Hit Die or more than 16 Hit Dice cannot be converted.
\par }{\b Flesh Transfer (Ex): }{A star doppelganger can transfer its own flesh to a helpless living creature or a living creat
ure that it has pinned in a grapple for 3 consecutive rounds. As an attack action, the star doppelganger sloughs flesh from its own body onto the helpless or pinned foe, thereby transforming the latter\rquote 
s body into star doppelganger flesh. The opponent may attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 star doppelganger\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) to resist. Success indicates that the star doppelganger has failed to transfer its flesh to the opponent, but it can attempt to do so again using another attack
 action assuming that the proper conditions are still in place. Failure indicates that the flesh transfer was successful and the}{\fs16  }{opponent\rquote 
s body has begun to transform into star doppelganger flesh. The opponent is then helpless for the remainder of the process.
\par The star doppelganger must stay in physical contact with the target for 1d4 additional rounds before the transfer is complete. At that point, the opponent can be either absorbed by the star doppelganger or converted into a new star doppelganger (see 
Absorb and Convert, above), at the attacker\rquote 
s option. If the star doppelganger is physically separated from the opponent or killed before the flesh transfer is complete, the opponent takes 1d4 points of Constitution drain and remains helpless for 2d4 rounds.
\par An opponent smaller than Tiny or larger than Large cannot be either absorbed or converted. If the opponent cannot be either absorbed, and a creature with less than 1 Hit Die or more than 16 Hit Dice cannot be converted, it simply becomes a dead star dop
pelganger when the process is complete.
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{Any creature within 60 feet of a star doppelganger in its normal form must succeed on a Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 star doppelganger\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be stunned for 1d4 round
s by its hideous appearance and otherworldly appendages. An opponent that cannot see the star doppelganger is immune to this effect.
\par Whether or not the save is successful, the creature cannot be affected again by that star doppelganger\rquote s fear aura for 24 hours.
\par }{\b Hive Mind (Su): }{
All star doppelgangers within 200 feet of one another are in constant mental communication. If one is aware of a particular threat, they all are. If one star doppelganger in a particular group is not flat-footed, none of them are. No 
star doppelganger in such a group is considered flanked unless they all are.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Because a star doppelganger does not need to breathe, it is immune to suffocation, inhaled poisons, and other detrimental atmospheric effects. If it has assumed a
 form that normally breathes, it does so to look natural, but its immunities still apply.
\par }{\b Mimic (Ex): }{A star doppelganger can perfectly mimic any creature that it has absorbed within the past hour. Changing its form to match that of the absorbed creature i
s a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity. The star doppelganger retains its own Hit Dice, hit points, species traits, desires, and allegiances, but replaces its own ability scores with those of the absorbed creature. It also gains access
 to all the absorbed creature\rquote 
s natural weapons, attack bonuses, skills, ability scores, feats, memories, and even spells yet to be cast. All of these abilities function at the effective Hit Dice or level of the absorbed creature. The star doppelganger func
tions in all ways as the creature did just before the absorption.
\par The star doppelganger must be of the same size category as the creature it chooses to mimic, so it may need to split or absorb creatures until its size is correct. It must acquire the equipm
ent of the absorbed individual to complete the ruse properly. A star doppelganger may mimic a particular creature only once, and it can stay in that form for no longer than 24 hours. Thereafter, it automatically reverts to its star doppelganger form, losi
n
g all the knowledge, skills, feats, and abilities that the mimicked form provided. It does retain the memories of its actions while in the mimicked form and any information it gained during that time. Hit point and ability damage or drain taken in the mim
icked form is healed upon reversion to its original form, but a star doppelganger that is killed in a mimicked form remains dead. Any magical effects that were operating on the star doppelganger in its mimicked form end upon reversion. 
\par Most star doppelgangers try to return to their normal forms when their mimicked forms have lost half their hit points to damage.
\par }{\b Regeneration 5 (Ex): }{A star doppelganger regenerates 5 points of damage each round but cannot regenerate fire, acid, or electricity damage. If a st
ar doppelganger loses a limb or body part, the lost portion regrows in 3d6 minutes. The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by holding it to the stump.
\par }{\b Split (Ex): }{If a star doppelganger wants to escape bonds, or enter an area of smaller con
fines than its current size would permit, or diminish its size to mimic a creature it has absorbed, it can split off part of its body at will. Splitting is a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity.
\par The detached portion is a new star doppelg
anger of a size category smaller than the original, with the normal statistics for a star doppelganger of its size category. (Use the size equivalencies given in the Absorb ability, above, to determine the results of splits.) Any damage or other negative 
e
ffects previously suffered stay with the larger portion, or are randomly assigned to one portion if both are the same size category. Neither portion of the split doppelganger can be smaller than Tiny. Once it has split apart, the star doppelganger cannot 
rejoin its parts; they are forever separate creatures. A star doppelganger can initiate a split at any point on its body\emdash a fact that makes binding one nearly impossible.
\par }{\b Species Bonuses: }{Because of its near-perfect mimicry ability, a star doppelganger gains
 a +30 circumstance bonus on Disguise checks and a +10 circumstance bonus on Bluff checks when acting as the creature it is mimicking. These bonuses are not accounted for in the statistics blocks below.
\par }{\b 
\par Tiny Star Doppelganger: }{CR 1/2; Tiny aberration; HD 1d8; hp 4; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 17, touch 13, flat-footed 16 (+2 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
8; Atk +2 melee (1d4, bite); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4, bite) and \endash 3 melee (1d3, gore) and \endash 3 melee (1d2, claw) and \endash 
3 melee (1, slam); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft; SQ absorb, alien physiology, cold resistance 10, convert, darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 10), flesh transfer (DC 10), hive mind, immunities, mimic, regeneration 5, split; AL ev
il; SV Fort +0, Ref +1, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0;
\par Str 10, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +12, Craft (electronic) +9, Craft (mechanical) +9, Drive +5, Hide +11, Listen +8, Move Silently +11, Pilot +5, Spot +8, Swim +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Athletic, Builder, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{2 HD (Small); 3\endash 4 HD (Medium-size); 5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 16 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Small Star Doppelganger: }{CR 2; Small aberration; HD 2d8; hp 9; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 15 (+1 size, +4 natural); BAB +1; Grap \endash 
2; Atk +4 melee (1d6+2, bite); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+2, bite) and \endash 1 melee (1d4+1, gore) and \endash 1 melee (1d3+1, claw) and \endash 1 melee (1d2+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; 
SQ absorb, alien physiology, cold resistance 10, convert, darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 11), flesh transfer (DC 11), hive mind, immunities, mimic, regeneration 5, split; AL evil; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 14, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 16
, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +14, Craft (electronic) +9, Craft (mechanical) +9, Drive +4, Listen +8, Hide + 7, Move Silently +7, Pilot +4, Spot +8, Swim +14.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Athletic, Builder, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{3\endash 4 HD (Medium-size); 5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 16 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Medium-Size Star Doppelganger: }{CR 3; Medium-size aberration; HD 4d8+4; hp 22; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 13, touch 9, flat-footed 14 (\endash 1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +3; Grap +
7; Atk +7 melee (2d4+4, bite); Full Atk +7 melee (2d4+4, bite) and +2 melee (1d6+3, gore) and +2 melee (1d4+2, claw) and +2 melee (1d3+2, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ absorb, alien physiology, cold resistance 10, convert, darkvision 60 ft., fe
ar aura (DC 12), flesh transfer (DC 13), hive mind, immunities, mimic, regeneration 5, split; AL evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 8, Con 12, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +17, Craft (electronic) +9, Craft (mechanical) +9, Drive +3, Listen +8, Hide +3, Move Silently +3, Pilot +3, Spot +8, Swim +17.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Athletic, Builder, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 16 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Large Star Doppelganger: }{CR 7; Large aberration; HD 8d8+24; hp 60; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 13, touch 7, flat-footed 13 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +6; Grap +18; Atk +13 melee (2d6+8, bite); Full Atk +13 melee (2d6+8, bite) and +8 melee (1d8+4, gore) and +8 melee 
(1d6+4, claw) and +8 melee (1d4+4, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft; SQ absorb, alien physiology, cold resistance 10, convert, darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 14), flesh transfer (DC 17), hive mind, immunities, mimic, regeneration 5, split; AL evi
l; SV Fort +5, Ref +0, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 6, Con 16, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +23, Craft (electronic) +9, Craft (mechanical) +9, Drive +2, Listen +8, Hide \endash 1, Move Silently \endash 1, Pilot +2, Spot +8, Swim +23.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Athletic, Builder, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{9\endash 16 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Huge Star Doppelganger: }{CR 10; Huge aberration; HD 16d8+80; hp 152; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 3; Spd 30 ft., burrow 20 ft. climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 5, flat-footed 14 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
3 Dex, +9 natural); BAB +12; Grap +32; Atk +22 melee (2d8+12, bite); Full Atk +22 melee (2d8+12, bite) and +17 melee (2d6+6, gore) and +17 melee (2d4+6, claw) and +17 melee (1d6+6, slam); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft; SQ absorb, alien ph
ysiology, cold resistance 10, convert, darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 18), flesh transfer (DC 23), hive mind, immunities, mimic, regeneration 5, split; AL evil; SV Fort +10, Ref +2, Will +12; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 34, Dex 4, Con 20, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 10.

\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +30, Craft (electronic) +9, Craft (mechanical) +9, Drive +1, Listen +8, Hide \endash 3, Move Silently \endash 3, Pilot +1, Spot +8, Swim +30.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Athletic, Builder, Cleave, Great Cleave, Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {THOUGHT EATER
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
A thought eater is a 3-foot-long creature with flesh of wispy protomatter, through which its skeleton is visible. It has the body shape of a predatory feline and the skull and claws of a cruel bird of prey.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feat: }{A thought eater gains Improved Initiative as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Dimensional Jaunt (Su): }{At will, a thought eater can shift from a different plane of existence into the normal world as part of any move action and shift back again as a free action. During this jaunt, the thought eater is incorporeal.
\par In this state, a thought eater has no physical form and can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, though it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. T
he thought eater can pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass through armor. It moves in complete silence and cannot be heard at all.
\par }{\b Eat Thoughts (Su): }{A thought eater can drain the thoughts of a living being with a successful melee to
uch attack. Against an opponent with psionics, this ability drains 6 power points from the victim. (If the victim has fewer than 6 power points, the thought eater gains all the remaining power points that the opponent possesses). Against a nonpsionic crea
t
ure, this attack deals 1 point of Intelligence damage, which provides the thought eater with nourishment equivalent to 6 power points. A thought eater requires the equivalent of 10 power points per day to survive, but it happily gorges itself whenever the
 opportunity presents itself. Power points consumed in excess of its minimum daily requirement do not count against the next day\rquote s requirement.
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i daze}{, }{\i detect psionics, distract, verve}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + thought eater\rquote s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b 
\par Thought Eater: }{CR 2; Small aberration; HD 3d8+3; hp 16; Mas 11; Init +8; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 15, flat-footed 13 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap \endash 2; Atk +3 melee touch (6 power points or 1 Int, to
uch); Full Atk +3 melee touch (6 power points or 1 Int, touch); SQ dimensional jaunt, eat thoughts, }{\i psionics; }{FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +1, Ref +5, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +14, Listen +7, Spot +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{4\endash 6 HD (Small).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {THUNDERBIRD
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The thunderbird appears as an enormous raptor with blazing, electric-blue eyes. Its feathers are a mix of dark gray and snowy white, resembling the clouds of a thu
nderstorm. Its wings periodically shed wisps of fog and arcs of electricity that become more abundant when it is angered or excited. The thunderbird measures 30 feet from beak to tail, and its wingspan can reach 120 feet.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{A thunderbird can speak Auran (the language of avian creatures).
\par }{\b Breath Weapon (Su): }{Every 1d4 rounds, a thunderbird can breathe a 60-foot-long cone of sonic energy as an attack action. Any creature in the cone takes 1d10 points of sonic damage per 2 Hit 
Dice of the thunderbird (8d10 for the typical adult specimen). A successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the thunderbird\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) halves the damage.
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{Any creature within 60 feet of a thunderbird must succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the thunderbird\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be shaken for 1d4 rounds. Whether or not the save is successful, that creature cannot be affected again by that thunderbird\rquote s fear aura for 24 hours.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use th
is ability, the thunderbird must hit a single opponent at least two size categories smaller than itself with both claw attacks in the same round. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals damage for two claw attacks and a bite attack each round that the h
old is maintained.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Thunderbirds are immune to electricity and sonic damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Thunderbird (Chick): }{CR 3; Medium-size magical beast; HD 5d10+5; hp 32; Mas 12; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., 50 ft. (average); Defense 21, touch 12, flat-footed 19 (+2 Dex
, +9 natural); BAB +5; Grap +5; Atk +6 melee (1d6, bite); Full Atk +6 melee (1d6, bite) and +1 melee (1d4, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ breath weapon (2d10; DC 13), darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 13), improved grab, immunities, low-light
 vision; AL chaos; SV Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 13, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills}{: Hide +6, Intimidate +5, Listen +5, Move Silently +6, Speak Auran, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats}{: Weapon Focus (bite).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{6\endash 7 HD (Medium-size); 8\endash 15 HD (Large); 16\endash 25 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Thunderbird (Adult): }{CR 14; Huge magical beast; HD 16d10+80; hp 168; Mas 20; Init +0; Spd 30 ft., fly 100 ft. (average); Defense 22, touch 8, flat-footed 22 (\endash 2 size, +14 natural); BAB +16; Grap +32; Atk +23 melee (2d6+8, b
ite); Full Atk +23 melee (2d6+8, bite) and +21 melee (2d4+4, 2 claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ breath weapon (8d10; DC 23), darkvision 60 ft., fear aura (DC 20), improved grab, immunities, lowlight vision; AL chaos; SV Fort +15, Ref +10, Wil
l +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 10, Con 20, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Skills}{: Hide \endash 2, Intimidate +10, Listen +12, Move Silently +6, Speak Auran, Speak Language (any one), Spot +12.
\par }{\b Feats}{: Cleave, Multiattack, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (bite), Weapon Focus (claw).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {TOXIC SLUDGE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Acid (Ex): }{A toxic sludge is composed of caustic chemicals that dissolve any substance except stone and metal. A toxic sludge\rquote 
s slam attack deals 1d4 points of acid damage in addition to the normal bludgeoning damage.
\par }{\b Blindsight (Ex): }{A toxic sludge is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the toxic sludge.
\par }{\b Expansion (Ex): }{A toxic sludge absor
bs the bodies of creatures it has killed in battle. This process takes a number of rounds depending on the size of the corpse: Diminutive or smaller 1, Tiny 2, Small 4, Medium-size 8, Large 16, Huge 32, Gargantuan 64, and Colossal 128. The sludge grows by
 1 Hit Die for every 16 rounds it spends consuming bodies, to a maximum of 45 Hit Dice.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Toxic sludges are immune to acid, electricity, and cold damage. If a cold attack deals damage equal to or greater than a toxic sludge\rquote s Constitution score, the toxic sludge is affected as though by a }{\i slow }{spell.

\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the toxic sludge must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals slam d
amage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.
\par }{\b Ooze}{: A toxic sludge has the traits and immunities common to oozes.
\par }{\b Toxic Fumes (Ex): }{Any creature that comes within 10 feet of a toxic sludge must make a successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the toxic sludge\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) or take 1d4 points of Strength damage. A new save must be made each round a creature remains within 10 feet of the toxic sludge.
\par }{\b 
\par Toxic Sludge: }{CR 7; Large ooze; HD 6d10+27; hp 60; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 7, touch 7, flat-footed 7 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
2 Dex); BAB +4; Grap +10; Atk +5 melee (1d8+3, slam plus 1d4 acid); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+3, slam plus 1d4 acid); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ acid, blindsight, constr
ict, expansion, immunities, improved grab, ooze, toxic fumes (DC 15); AL none; SV Fort +4, Ref +0, Will \endash 3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 7, Con 14, Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{6\endash 12 HD (Large); 13\endash 18 HD (Huge); 19\endash 31 HD (Gargantuan); 32\endash 45 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Toxic Sludge: }{CR 12; Gargantuan ooze; HD 20d10+150; hp 260; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 10, touch 3, flat-footed 10 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
3 Dex, +7 natural); BAB +15; Grap +37; Atk +21 melee (2d8+10 plus 1d4 acid, slam); 
Full Atk +21/+16/+11 melee (2d8+10 plus 1d4 acid, slam); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ acid, blindsight, expansion, immunities, improved grab, ooze, toxic fumes (DC 26); AL none; SV Fort +12, Ref +3, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 5, Con 22, I
nt \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {UDOROOT
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Udoroots are enormous carnivorous plants that possess psionic powers. The bulk of an udoroot lies beneath the soil. Its massive, bulbous root system can reach down as far as 30 feet below the surface. 
The above-ground portion of the plant consists of six stalks, each topped by a single flower crown. These crowns resemble mature sunflowers with red seeds, white petals, and tough, woody stalks. They grow in a circle that can reach 20 feet in diameter.

\par An udoroot can be killed only by digging up or otherwise exposing its root, then burning it, hacking it apart, or totally destroying it in some other manner. Severing or psionically disabling all six crowns negates the plant\rquote 
s ability to attack and makes exca
vation of the root easier. To sever a crown, an opponent must penetrate the woody bark of the stalk (hardness 5, hp 7). A severed crown dies, but the udoroot suffers no ill effects other than its absence. As long as the creature\rquote 
s root remains intact, any severed crowns regrow in about a month. A psionic creature can also overcome a crown in psionic combat by reducing any one of the creature\rquote 
s ability scores to 0. This attack does not harm the main root or any other crowns, which must be attacked separately to deal any damage.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits}{\fs36 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{
An udoroot is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the udoroot 
\par }{\b Cold Resistance 20 (Ex): }{An udoroot ignores the first 20 points of cold damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{An udoroot is immune to electricity and fire damage.
\par }{\b Plant: }{Udoroots have the traits and immunities common to plants.
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i false sensory input, lesser body adjustment, lightning strike, telekinesis}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + udoroot\rquote s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b 
\par Udoroot: }{CR 5; Huge plant; HD 6d8+18; hp 45; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 0 ft.; Defense 14, touch 8, flat-footed 14 (\endash 2 size, +6 natural); BAB +4; Grap \emdash 
; Atk none; Full Atk none; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. per stalk; Reach 10 ft. per stalk; SQ blindsight 40 ft., cold resistance 20, immunities, plant, }{\i psionics; }{AL none; SV Fort +8, Ref +2, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 3, Dex 10, Con 16, Int \emdash 
, Wis 13, Cha 9.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 16 HD (Huge); 17\endash 32 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Udoroot: }{CR 8; Gargantuan plant; HD 17d8+85; hp 161; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 0 ft.; Defense 16, touch 6, flat-footed 16 (\endash 4 size, +10 natural); BAB +12; Grap \emdash 
; Atk none; Full Atk none; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft. per stalk; Reach 15 ft. per stalk; SQ cold resistance 20, blindsight 40 ft., immunities, plant, }{\i psionics; }{AL none; SV Fort +15, Ref +5, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 10, Con 20, Int \emdash 
, Wis 13, Cha 9.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {WHISPERER IN THE DARK
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
From a distance, a whisperer in the dark resembles a swirling bank of mist or light fog, but an observer within 30 feet of the whisperer can clearly see dozens of humanoid faces in the fog, silently screaming their endless torment.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Daylight Powerlessness (Ex): }{
A whisperer in the dark is utterly powerless in natural sunlight and flees from it if possible. If caught in sunlight, it cannot attack and may make only one move or attack action each round. It cannot take full-round actions at all in this situation.

\par }{\b Incorporeal Subtype (Su): }{A whisperer in the dark has no physical form and can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, though
 it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. The whisperer in the dark can pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass through armor. The charred one moves in complete silence and cannot be heard at all.
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i attraction}{, }{\i clairaudience/clairvoyance}{, }{\i concussion}{, }{\i detect psionics}{, }{\i suggestion}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + whisperer in the dark\rquote 
s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b Steal Essence (Su): }{If a creature with an Intelligence score greater than 2 is slain by a whisperer in the dark, its essence is absorbed into the monster\rquote 
s consciousness within 1d4 rounds, though its physical body remains intact. Stealing a creature\rquote s essence grants the whisperer 12 temporary hit points, and a new screaming
 face resembling that of the absorbed creature appears permanently within the cloud.
\par }{\b Turn Resistance +2 (Su): }{A whisperer in the dark is treated as having +2 Hit Dice for the purpose of turn or rebuke attempts.
\par }{\b Undead: }{A whisperer in the dark has the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\b Unnatural Aura (Su): }{A whisperer in the dark constantly projects an unnatural aura to a radius of 30 feet around itself. Both wild and domesticated animals can sense this aura and refuse to enter its area. If forced to co
me closer than 30 feet to the whisperer in the dark, they panic and remain panicked for as long as they are in the area.
\par }{\b 
\par Whisperer in the Dark: }{CR 12; Large undead (incorporeal); HD 11d12; hp 71; Mas \emdash ; Init +7; Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good); Defense 14, touch 14, flat-footed 11 (\endash 1 size, +3 Dex, +2 deflection); BAB +5; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +4 melee (2d6 Con, incorporeal touch); Full Atk +4 melee (2d6 Con, 4 incorporeal touches); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ daylight powerlessness, incorporeal, }{\i psionics, }{ste
al essence, turn resistance +2, undead, unnatural aura; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 16, Con \emdash , Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Concentration +8, Hide +13, Intimidate +12, Listen +12, Search +12, Sense Motive +8, Spot +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Frightful Presence, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{12\endash 18 HD (Huge); 19\endash 26 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {YETI
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A yeti is a large, white-furred, human-shaped creature that stands about 8 feet tall and weighs appr
oximately 300 pounds. Its long fur is heaviest around the head and shoulders, and its hands and feet are wide and flat. Layers of fat insulate its body, allowing it to survive and even thrive in subzero conditions. Although a yeti can stand and walk uprig
ht, it tends to hunch over and use its hands and feet, in the manner of a gorilla, to navigate ice floes and rocky terrain. Its eyes are either blue or colorless, and it has an extra pair of transparent eyelids that allow it to see even in blowing snow.

\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Cold Subtype (Ex): }{A yeti is immune to cold damage. It takes 50% more damage from fire attacks.
\par }{\b Constrict (Ex): }{A yeti deals normal claw damage (treat as bludgeoning damage) plus 2d6 points of cold damage with a successful grapple check against a target at least one size category smaller than itself.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the yeti must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its claw attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals claw damage each
 round that the hold is maintained, and it can constrict in the same round.
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{The yeti\rquote s white fur grants it a +15 species bonus on Hide checks made in snowy conditions.
\par }{\b 
\par Yeti: }{CR 3; Large monstrous humanoid (cold); HD 4d8+4; hp 22; Mas 12; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flatfooted 13 (\endash 
1 size, +1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +4; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+4, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+4, 2 claws); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold subtype, constrict, darkvision 60 ft., improved
 grab; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +10, Hide +2 (+17 in snowy conditions), Move Silently +6, Speak Giant, Survival +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 12 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Abominable Snowman (Advanced Yeti): }{CR 6; Huge monstrous humanoid (cold); HD 12d8+36; hp 90; Mas 16; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 15, touch 8, flat-footed 15 (\endash 
2 size, +7 natural); BAB +12; Grap +28; Atk +18 melee (2d4+8, claw); Full Atk +18 melee (
2d4+8, 2 claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ cold subtype, constrict, darkvision 60 ft., improved grab; AL any; SV Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 26, Dex 11, Con 16, Int 9, Wis 12, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +14, Hide +3 (+18 in snowy conditions), Move Silently +10, Speak Giant, Survival +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Power Attack, Track.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ZAP
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Elemental: }{Zaps have the traits and immunities common to elementals.
\par }{\b Electricity Immunity (Ex): }{A zap is immune to electricity damage.
\par }{\b Shock Touch (Ex): }{With a successful melee touch attack, a zap deals 1 point of electricity damage.
\par }{\b Short Circuit (Su): }{At will as an attack action, a zap can cause an electrical overload in a piece of electronic equipment within 10 feet, destroying its internal workings an
d rendering it useless. If the item is being carried or wielded at the time of the attack, the wielder can attempt a Reflex save (DC 20) to negate the effect. An unattended item receives no save. An electronic item damaged in this fashion must either be r
eplaced or repaired (Repair DC 15).
\par }{\b 
\par Zap: }{CR 1/4; Fine elemental (air); HD 1/4 d8; hp 1; Mas \emdash ; Init +4; Spd 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (perfect); Defense 22, touch 22, flat-footed 18 (+8 size, +4 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \emdash ; Atk +4 melee touch (1 electricity, shock touch
); Full Atk +4 melee touch (1 electricity, shock touch); FS 6 in. by 6 in.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., electricity immunity, elemental, shock touch, short circuit; AL chaos; SV Fort +0, Ref +6, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 2, Dex 19, Con 10, Int 5, 
Wis 12, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +24, Listen +3, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ZEIKUNE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{
To use this ability, the zeikune must hit an opponent with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite damage and liquefaction damage (see below) each round that the hold is maintained.
\par }{\b Liquefaction (Ex): }{Once the zeikune gets a hold of its opponent (see Improved Grab above), it begins injecting fluids that dissolve the victim\rquote s organs, dealing 1d4 points of Con
stitution damage per round. If the creature dies or its Constitution score drops to 0 as a result of this process, the creature\rquote 
s organs turn to slush, and the ability damage becomes ability drain. The victim dies, at which point the zeikune can begin sucking the liquefied organs from the creature\rquote s body (see Siphon Fluids, below).
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i combat precognition }{(always active), }{\i mental blast, object reading}{; 3/day\emdash }{\i inflict pain, levitate}{. Manifester level 5th; save DC 10 + zeikune\rquote s key ability m
odifier + power level.
\par }{\b Siphon Fluids (Ex): }{Once a zeikune liquefies the internal organs of a creature, it can spend a fullround action siphoning the fluids from the dead creature\rquote s body, leaving behind a shriveled husk. The fluid not only provides sustenan
ce but also heals the zeikune of 3d6 points of damage and 1d6 points of ability damage (per ability).
\par }{\b 
\par Zeikune: }{CR 4; Medium-size aberration; HD 5d8+5; hp 27; Mas 13; Init +6; Spd fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 17, touch 13, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +4 natur
al, +1 insight); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (2d4, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (2d4, bite) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, liquefaction, power resistance 17, psionics, siphon fluids; AL none; SV Fort +2, R
ef +3, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 11, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +9, Listen +8, Move Silently +9, Spot +8.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Initiative, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Zeikune Smart Hero 2: }{CR 6; Medium
-size aberration; HD 5d8+5 plus 2d6+2; hp 36; Mas 13; Init +6; Spd fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 14, flat-footed 16 (+2 Dex, +1 class, +4 natural, +1 insight); BAB +4; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (2d4, bite) or +6 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); Full
 
Atk +4 melee (2d4, bite) or +6 ranged (2d6, Ruger Service-Six); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, liquefaction, power resistance 17, psionics, siphon fluids; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 1; Rep +1; Str 11, De
x 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Computer Use +8, Disable Device +6, Hide +11, Listen +10, Move Silently +11, Read/Write English, Repair +5, Research +6, Search +6, Spot +10.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Talent (Smart Hero): }{Savant (Computer Use).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Ruger Service-Six (.38S revolver).
\par }}