{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New{\*\falt Courier};}{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f49\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr{\*\falt Courier};}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek{\*\falt Courier};}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur{\*\falt Courier};}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier};}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic){\*\falt Courier};}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic{\*\falt Courier};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{
\s6\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 8;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}
}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\info{\title ACID RAINER}{\author asmith}{\operator asmith}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min5}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy7\hr11\min5}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords18214}{\nofchars103825}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws127504}
{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 MENACE CREATURES (A-I)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ACID RAINER
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Acid Resistance 10 (Ex): }{An acid rainer ignores the first 10 points of acid damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Acid Spray (Ex): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, an acid rainer can spray out a cloud of caustic mist that fills a 30-foot radius spread centered on itself. Each creature within this area takes 2d6 points of acid damage, or half damage if a Reflex 
save succeeds (DC 10 + 1/2 the acid rainer\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier).
\par }{\b Acid Touch (Ex): }{An acid rainer\rquote s tentacles are coated with a caustic secretion that deals 1d6 points of acid damage on a successful hit.
\par }{\b Elemental: }{An acid rainer has the traits and immunities common to elementals.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the acid rainer must hit a single opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with two tentacle attacks during the same round. If it gets a hold, it automatica
lly deals damage for two tentacle attacks (including acid) each round that the hold is maintained. 
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{An acid rainer gains a +8 species bonus on Hide checks and a +4 species bonus on Move Silently checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Acid Rainer: }{CR 8; Huge elemental (air); HD 8d8+40; hp 76; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 5 ft., fly 40 ft. (average); Defense 10, touch 6, flat-footed 10 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +6; Grap +19; Atk +9 melee (1d4+5 plus 1d6 acid, tentacle); Full Atk +9 melee (1d4+5 plus 1d6 acid, 6 tentacles) o
r +2 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 20 ft. with tentacles; SQ acid resistance 10, acid spray (DC 19), acid touch, darkvision 60 ft., elemental, improved grab; AL none; SV Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 7, Con 20, Int 6, Wis 11, Ch
a 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +6, Listen +6, Move Silently +8, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Power Attack.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{9\endash 16 HD (Huge); 17\endash 24 HD (Gargantuan); 25\endash 31 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Acid Rainer: }{CR 11; Gargantuan elemental (air); HD 20d8+140; hp 230; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 5 ft., fly 40 ft. (average); Defense 12, touch 4, flat-footed 12 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +15; Grap +36; Atk +20 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 acid, tentacle); Full Atk +20 melee (1d8+9 plus 1d6 acid, 6 tentacles) or +9 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 25
 ft. with tentacles; SQ acid resistance 10, acid spray (DC 27), acid touch, darkvision 60 ft., elemental, improved grab; AL none; SV Fort +13, Ref +12, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 7, Con 24, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +11, Listen +12, Move Silently +16, Spot +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Combat Reflexes, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Stealthy.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ALIEN PROBE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i Actinic Light }{\b (Sp): }{
As an attack action, an alien probe can produce an extremely bright, blue-white light in a 60-foot cone. This light 
is not so much an attack form as a side effect of the means by which the creature gathers data. Nevertheless, exposure to the effect can cause mild discomfort or even harm to carbon-based life forms. Each creature within the area of the light takes 1d4 po
ints of fire damage and is nauseated for 1d4 rounds; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the alien probe\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) halves the damage and negates the nauseating effect. A creature that fails the saving throw by 5 or more is also p
aralyzed until removed from the area. A creature that fails the save by 10 or more experiences such severe swelling of the flesh that it is blinded as well as paralyzed. The paralysis and blindness last for 2d4 days, or until the victim receives medical a
ttention (Treat Injury DC 15).
\par }{\b Construct: }{An alien probe has the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b Invisibility (Su): }{As a free action, an alien probe can become invisible by shifting its light display to a wavelength beyond other creatures\rquote  abili
ty to perceive. This ability is usable at will, and the effect lasts until dismissed (also a free action).
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i brain lock}{, }{\i daze}{, }{\i detect psionics}{, }{\i tailor memory}{, }{\i telekinesis}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + alien probe\rquote s key ability modifier + power level.
\par }{\b\i Dimension Door }{\b (Sp): }{As an attack action, an alien probe can psionically transfer itself plus up to 300 pounds of additional material and/or creatures up to 600 feet; creatures can resist with a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the 
alien probe\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). The probe must be in physical contact with the materials or creatures that it wishes to transfer. This ability is usable at will.
\par }{\b Shock (Ex): }{With a successful ranged touch attack, an alien probe can deal 2d6 points of electricity damage.
\par }{\b Supersonic Speed (Ex): }{At will, an alien probe can shift into an accelerated mode of travel that exceeds supersonic speed. Its fly speed changes to 4,000 feet (good). It can maintain this increased speed for up to 6 hours pe
r day, though it need not use the entire duration at once.
\par }{\b 
\par Alien Probe: }{CR 5; Small construct; HD 6d10+5; hp 38; Mas \emdash ; Init +9; Spd fly 400 ft. (perfect); Defense 20, touch 20, flat-footed 11 (+1 size, +9 Dex); BAB +4; Grap +3; Atk +14 ranged touch (2d6 
electricity, shock); Full Atk +14 ranged touch (2d6 electricity, shock); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ }{\i actinic light }{(DC 14), construct, darkvision 60 ft., }{\i dimension door }{(DC 14), invisibility, }{\i psionics, }{
shock, supersonic speed; AL creator; SV Fort +2, Ref +11, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 28, Con \emdash , Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +12, Spot +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ANACONDA, GIANT
\par }\pard\plain \s4\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel3\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs36\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Constrict (Ex): }{A giant anaconda deals 1d6+16 points of bludgeoning damage with a 
successful grapple check against a target at least one size category smaller than itself.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the giant anaconda must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with either a bite or a tail slap atta
ck. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals bite or tail slap damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can constrict in the same round and attempt to swallow in the next round. If the giant anaconda wishes, it can continue to attack with it
s tail or its bite (not both) while it grapples with its body, but it takes a \endash 20 penalty on all grapple checks if it does so.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a giant anaconda to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A giant anaconda gains a +8 species bonus on Balance, Climb, and Swim checks and a +4 species bonus on Hide, Listen, and Spot checks.
\par }{\b Swallow Whole (Ex): }{If a giant anaconda begins its turn with an opponent one or more size categories smal
ler than itself held in its mouth, it can attempt a new grapple check as though trying to pin the opponent. If it succeeds, it swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the giant anaconda, the opponent takes bludgeoning damage 
equal to the anaconda\rquote s tail slap attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster\rquote s stomach. A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out of the stomach and return to the giant anaconda\rquote 
s maw, where another successf
ul grapple check is needed to get free. Alternatively, the swallowed creature can attack from inside the stomach using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon. Dealing at least 30 points of damage to the stomach (Defense 18) in this way creates an openin
g large enough to permit escape. Once a single swallowed creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; thus, another swallowed creature must cut its own way out. A Huge giant anaconda\rquote 
s stomach can hold 1 Large, 2 Medium-size, 8 Small, 32 Tiny, or 128 Diminutive or smaller opponents.
\par }{\b 
\par Giant Anaconda: }{CR 9; Huge animal; HD 12d8+60; hp 114; Mas 21; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., climb 20 ft., swim 40 ft.; Defense 16, touch 9, flat-footed 15 (\endash 2 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural); BAB +9; Grap +28; Atk +18 melee (1d6+11, tail 
slap); Full Atk +18 melee (1d6+11, tail slap) and +13 melee (2d6+5, bite); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft; SQ constrict (1d6+16), improved grab, low-light vision, scent, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +13, Ref +9, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 32, Dex 13,
 Con 21, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +9, Climb +19, Hide +12, Listen +5, Spot +5, Swim +19.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{13\endash 23 HD (Huge); 24\endash 36 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Giant Anaconda: }{CR 15; Gargantuan animal; HD 30d8+210; hp 345; Mas 25; Init +1; Spd 20 ft., climb 20 ft., swim 40 ft.; Defense 18, touch 7, flat-footed 17 (\endash 
4 size, +1 Dex, +11 natural); BAB +22; Grap +49; Atk +33 melee (1d8+15, tail slap); Full Atk +33 melee (1d8+15, tail slap) and +28 melee (2d8+7, bite); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach
 15 ft; SQ constrict (1d8+22), improved grab, low-light vision, scent, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +24, Ref +18, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 40, Dex 13, Con 25, Int 1, Wis 12, Cha 2.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +9, Climb +23, Hide +8, Listen +5, Spot +5,
\par Swim +23.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par ANIMATED OBJECT
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blind (Ex): }{
A sheetlike animated object (such as a carpet or a drape) can use this ability against an opponent up to three size categories larger than itself. The animated object makes a normal grapple check. If it gets a hold, it wraps itself around the opponent
\rquote s head, blinding that creature until removed. The blinded creature cannot make Search, Spot, or Survival checks to track, and it takes a \endash 6 circumstance penalty on all other checks related to perception (such as Listen).
\par }{\b Constrict (Ex): }{A flexible animated object (such as a rope or chain) deals automatic slam damage with a successful grapple check against a target up to one size category larger than itself. 
\par A Large or larger animated object (flexible or not) can make constrict attacks against multiple creatures at once. Each of the targets of such an attack must be at least two size categories smaller than the animated object and able to fit underneath it.

\par }{\b Construct: }{An animated object has the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b Hardness (Ex): }{An animated object has the same hardness it had before it was animated.
\par }{\b Improved Speed (Ex): }{The base speeds given in the statistics blocks below assume that the animated objects lurch, rock, or slither alon
g the ground. An object with two legs (a statue or a ladder, for example) or some other feature that allows faster movement has a bonus of +10 feet to its speed. An object with multiple legs (such as a table, chair, or statue of a quadrupedal creature) ha
s a bonus of +20 feet, and a wheeled object has a bonus of +40 feet.
\par Certain objects might also have other modes of movement. A wooden object can float, so it has a swim speed equal to one-half its land speed. A rope or similar sinuous object has a climb sp
eed equal to one-half its land speed. A sheetlike object can fly (clumsy maneuverability) at one-half its land speed.
\par }{\b Trample (Ex): }{As a standard action during its turn each round, a Large or larger animated object with a hardness of at least 10 can trampl
e opponents at least two size categories smaller than itself. This attack deals bludgeoning damage equal to the object\rquote s slam damage plus 1.5 times its Strength modifier. A trampled opponent can attempt either an attack of opportunity at a \endash 
4 penalty or a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 object\rquote s HD + object\rquote s Strength bonus) for half damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Tiny Animated Object: }{CR 1/2; Tiny construct; HD 1/2 d10; hp 2; Mas \emdash ; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 14, flatfooted 12 (+2 size, +2 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 9; Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 1, slam); Full Atk +1 melee (1d3\endash 
1, slam) or +4 ranged; FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +2, Will \endash 5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 8, Dex 14, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Small Animated Object: }{CR 1; Small construct; HD 1d10+5; hp 10; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flatfooted 13 (+1 size, +1 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 4; Atk +1 melee (1d4, slam); Full Atk +1 melee (1
d4, slam) or +2 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +1, Will \endash 5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 12, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Medium-size Animated Object: }{CR 2; Medium-size construct; HD 2d10+10; hp 21; Mas \emdash 
; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 10, flat-footed 14 (+4 natural); BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, slam); Full Atk +2 melee (1d6+1, slam) or +1 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Rea
ch 5 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will \endash 5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 10, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Large Animated Object: }{CR 3; Large construct; HD 4d10+20; hp 42; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 9, flat-footed 14 (\endash 
1 size, +5 natural); BAB +3; Grap +10; Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, slam); Full Atk +5 melee (1d8+4, slam) or +2 ranged; FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +1, Ref +1, Will \endash 
4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 16, Dex 10, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Huge Animated Object: }{CR 5; Huge construct; HD 8d10+40; hp 84; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 7, flatfooted 13 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +6; Grap +19; Atk +9 melee (2d6+7, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (2d6+7, slam) or +3 ranged; FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +1, Will \endash 
3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 8, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Gargantuan Animated Object: }{CR 7; Gargantuan construct; HD 16d10+80; hp 168; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 4, flat-footed 12 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +12; Grap +31; Atk +15 melee (2d8+10, slam); Full Atk +15 melee (2d8+10, slam) or +6 ranged; FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +3, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str
 24, Dex 6, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Colossal Animated Object: }{CR 10; Colossal construct; HD 32d10+120; hp 296; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 11, touch \endash 1, flat-footed 11 (\endash 8 size, \endash 3 Dex, +12 natural
); BAB +24; Grap +49; Atk +25 melee (4d6+13, slam); Full Atk +25 melee (4d6+13, slam) or +13 ranged; FS 30 ft. by 30 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ by object, construct, darkvision 60 ft.; AL none; SV Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 4, Con 
\emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par BOAR (WILD PIG)
\par }{A wild boar\rquote s hide is covered with short, woolly, grayishblack hair. Along the spine, hair mixes with stiffer bristles to form a sort of mane. The average adult boar stands 
3 feet high at the shoulder and measures roughly 4 feet long. Its formidable tusks protrude from its lower jaw and can grow up to 12 inches long.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Ferocity (Ex): }{A boar is so fiercely aggressive in combat that it continues fighting even when disabled or dying. 
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a boar to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b 
\par Boar (Wild Pig): }{CR 3; Medium-size animal; HD 3d8+9; hp 22; Mas 17; Init +0; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 16, touch 10, fl
atfooted 16 (+6 natural); BAB +2; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d8+3, gore); Full Atk +4 melee (1d8+3, gore); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ ferocity, low-light vision, scent; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 2
, Wis 13, Cha 4.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +7, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{4\endash 5 HD (Medium-size).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {BODAK
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Acid and Fire Resistance 20 (Ex): }{A bodak ignores the first 20 points of acid or fire damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 15/+1 (Su): }{A bodak ignores the first 15 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the bodak\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Death Gaze (Su): }{Any creature within 30 feet of a bodak that meets its gaze must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the bodak\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or die instantly. This ability is usable at will.
\par }{\b Electricity Immunity (Ex): }{A bodak is immune to electricity damage.
\par }{\b Flashbacks (Ex): }{Occasionally, a bodak sees something that reminds it of its past life. At the start of every encounter, there is a 5% chance that a bodak notices something about an opponent (ran
domly determined if more than one opponent is present) that triggers its memory of the past. When such a flashback occurs, the bodak takes no actions for 1 round, though it can defend itself normally. Thereafter, it takes a \endash 
2 morale penalty on all attack rolls directed at that opponent for the remainder of the combat.
\par }{\b Languages: }{A bodak does not speak.
\par }{\b Sunlight Vulnerability (Ex): }{The merest touch of sunlight sears a bodak\rquote s tainted alien flesh. Each round of exposure to the direct rays of the sun deals 1 point of damage to the creature.
\par }{\b Undead: }{A bodak has the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\b 
\par Bodak: }{CR 10; Small undead; HD 9d12; hp 58; Mas \emdash ; Init +6; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 16, touch 13, flat-footed 14 (+1 size, +2 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +4; Grap +1; A
tk +7 melee (1d4+1, slam); Full Atk +7 melee (1d4+1, slam); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and fire resistance 20, damage reduction 15/silver, death gaze (DC 15), electricity immunity, flashbacks, sunlight vulnerability, undead; AL evil; SV Fort 
+3, Ref +5, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 15, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +11, Listen +9, Move Silently +11, Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Dodge, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{10\endash 18 HD (Medium-size); 19\endash 27 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Bodak: }{CR 11; Medium-size undead; HD 12d12; hp 78; Mas \emdash 
; Init +6; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 11, flatfooted 13 (+1 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +6; Grap +9; Atk +9 melee (1d6+3, slam); Full Atk +9 melee (1d6+3, slam) or +7 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ acid and fir
e resistance 20, damage reduction 15/silver, death gaze (DC 17), electricity immunity, flashbacks, sunlight vulnerability, undead; AL evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +9; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 17, Dex 13, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +12, Listen +11, Move Silently +12, Spot +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Dodge, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\fs24 
\par BOGEYMAN (TEMPLATE)
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Bogeyman\'94 is an acquired template that can be added to any corporeal humanoid (referred to hereafter as the \'93base creature\'94
). The creature retains its humanoid type. It uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +1.
\par }{\b Defense: }{The base creature\rquote s natural armor bonus improves by +3.
\par }{\b Special Qualities: }{A bogeyman retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Death\rquote s Door (Su)}{: A bogeyman appears to die if reduced to \endash 10 hit points. However, unless it is reduced to its negative Constitution score in hit points, its \'93death\'94 is only temporary; when the bogeyman\rquote 
s fast healing ability (see below) brings its hit point total to 1 or higher, it springs back to life.
\par }{\i Fast Healing 5 (Su)}{: A bogeyman heals 5 points of damage per round until it is reduced to its negative Constitution score, at which point it dies. This ability does not enable the bogeyman to regrow or reattach severed body parts.
\par }{\i Immunities (Ex): }{A bogeyman is immune to disease, mind-affecting effects, necromantic effects, paralysis, poison, and sleep. It is not subject to nonlethal damage. 
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{Previous allegiances are lost; Replaced by an allegiance to evil. Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class abilities.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A bogeyman gains the following ability score increases: Str +2, Con +4. A bogeyman must have a minimum Constitution score of 11.
\par }{\b Languages: }{A bogeyman rarely speaks, but it can read, write, and understand whatever languages the base creature could.
\par }{\b Feats: }{
A bogeyman gains Great Fortitude and Improved Damage Threshold as bonus feats, assuming that it meets the prerequisites and the base creature did not already have those feats. A human bogeyman keeps the extra feat it gained as a 1st-level human character.

\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Bogeyman Tough Hero 9: }{CR 10; Medium-size humanoid; HD 9d10+63; hp 112; Mas 33; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 11, flat-footed 18 (+1 Dex, +3 natural, +5 class); BAB +6; Grap +9; Atk +11 melee (1d8+3 no
nlethal, unarmed strike); Full Atk +11 melee (1d8+3 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +9 melee (by weapon) or +7 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ death\rquote 
s door, fast healing 5, immunities; AL evil; SV Fort +13, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 5; Rep +3; Str 16, Dex 12, Con 24, Int 11, Wis 14, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Law Enforcement.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +7, Intimidate +13, Listen +8, Move Silently +4, Read/Write English, Speak English.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Armor Proficiency (light), Blind-Fight, Brawl, Endurance, Great Fortitude, Improved Brawl, Improved Damage Threshold (\'d73), Power Attack, Simple Weapons Proficiency Sunder.
\par }{\b Talents: }{Damage reduction 1/\emdash , robust, stamina.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Variety of slashing weapons.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CAT FOLK
\par }{In its natural form, a cat folk is an a
ttractive biped standing approximately 6 feet tall and weighing about 120 pounds. Its face and body are humanlike except for several distinctly feline features: a short muzzle, whiskers, vertical pupils, a long, graceful tail, and legs shaped like those o
f big cats. Its body is covered in soft fur\emdash 
usually black, although almost any shade is possible. If desired, a cat folk can assume the form of a normal (albeit a bit large) house cat with fur the same color as it has in its normal form. The creature most o
ften takes cat form to hide or run from attackers.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Alternate Form (Su): }{
As an attack or move action, a cat folk can assume the form of a normal-sized cat or revert to its natural form. In cat form, the creature has the same physical statisti
cs and attributes as a normal cat but retains its normal Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as its normal hit points. A cat folk can remain in either form indefinitely.
\par }{\b Automatic Languages: }{A cat folk reads, writes, and speaks Cat Folk. It can also speak the language of other felines (cats, panthers, tigers, and the like).
\par }{\b Bonus Feats: }{A cat folk receives Alertness as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Claws (Ex): }{A cat folk has retractable claws that function as natural weapons. Each claw deals 1d4 points of slashing damage (plus the creature\rquote s Strength bonus) and threatens a critical hit on a natural 20.
\par }{\b Feline Aversion (Ex): }{Any normal feline that can smell or see a cat folk must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cat folk\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma m
odifier) or flee in fear. A successful save means the feline is shaken but does not flee. In either case, the feline attacks the cat folk only if cornered. A cat folk is immune to its own feline aversion effect and to those of other cat folk.
\par }{\b Mesmerizing Gaze (Su): }{Any mammalian creature within 30 feet of a cat folk that meets its gaze must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the cat folk\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be dazed.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a cat folk, regardless of its form, to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Slow Fall (Ex): }{A cat folk ignores falling damage from heights of 30 feet or less. When falling from a greater height, it can attempt a Reflex save (DC 15) to halve the damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Cat Folk: }{CR 2; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8\endash 2; hp 7; Mas 9; Init +7; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 13, flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +2; Grap +2; Atk +2 }{\fs16  }{
melee (1d4+1, 2 claws); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +6 ranged (2d6, Glock 17); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ alternate form, claws, feline aversion (DC 14), mesmerizing gaze (DC 14), scent; AL evil; SV Fort \endash 
1, Ref +6, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 16, Con 9, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills}{: Balance +8, Hide +8, Listen +7, Read/Write Cat Folk, Read/Write English, Speak Cat Folk, Speak English, Spot +7, Tumble +7.
\par }{\b Feats}{: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions}{: Glock 17 (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of ammunition, concealed carry holster, formal outfit.
\par }{\b Advancement}{: By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Cat Folk Fast Hero 1/Charismatic Hero 2: }{CR 5; Mediumsize monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8\endash 2 plus 1d6\endash 2 plus 2d6\endash 2; hp 15; Mas 9; Init +7; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 19, touch 18, f
latfooted 16 (+3 Dex, +1 natural, +5 class); BAB +3; Grap +3; Atk +3 melee (1d4+1, claws); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+1, claws) or +7 ranged (2d6, Glock 17); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ alternate form, claws, feline aversion (DC 15), mesmerizing gaze (
DC 15), scent; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +10, Will +5; AP 1; Rep +2; Str 10, Dex 16, Con 9, Int 12, Wis 14, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills}{: Balance +10, Bluff +6, Disguise +8, Gather Information +7, Hide +11, Knowledge (behavioral science) +5, Knowledge (streetwise) +5, Listen +10, Read/ Write English, Read/Write Cat Folk, Speak English, Speak Cat Folk, Spot +10, Tumble +8.

\par }{\b Feats}{: Alertness, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Talents (Fast Hero): }{Evasion.
\par }{\b Talents (Charismatic Hero): }{Charm.
\par }{\b Possessions}{: Glock 17 (9mm autoloader), 50 rounds of ammunition, formal outfit, concealed carry holster, cell phone.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CHARRED ONE
\par }{A charred one resembles a human being that has been burned to a blackened husk. Its glowing-red eyes glitter with hatred and malice.
\par A charred one speaks one language that it knew in life. Its voice sounds like crackling flames.
\par Despite its solid appearance, a charred one has no physical form and can glide through solid objects. It gives off a shimmering, intense
 heat that can ignite flammable objects it touches. In combat, a charred one uses its incorporeal touch attack to set opponents afire.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Fire Subtype: }{A charred one is immune to fire damage. It takes 50% more damage from cold.
\par }{\b Heat (Su): }{The intense heat generated by a charred one\rquote 
s body deals 2d10 points of fire damage to anything it touches. This heat is usually enough to melt nonmagical weapons, but a magic weapon subjected to this effect receives a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the charred one\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier). Flammable items, such as clothing, wood, or paper, are automatically ignited by the touch of a charred one.
\par }{\b Incorporeal Subtype: }{A charred one has no physical form and can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures
, +1 or better magic weapons, or magic, though it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. The charred one can pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass through armor. The charred one moves in complete silence and 
cannot be heard at all.
\par }{\b Locate Killer (Su): }{If the charred one was created as the result of arson or careless use of fire, it gains the ability to hunt down the perpetrator. This ability is similar to the effect of a }{\i locate object }{spell (as if cast by a 5th
-level Acolyte), but the creature can locate only the creature responsible for its death. A charred one can use this ability once per day.
\par }{\b Undead: }{A charred one has the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\b 
\par Charred One: }{CR 3; Medium-size undead (fire, incorporeal); HD 5d12; hp 32; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd fly 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +2; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +4 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); Full Atk +4 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Rea
ch 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 60 ft., fire subtype, heat (DC 13), incorporeal subtype, locate killer, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 13, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 17, Cha 13.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +6, Intimidate +6, Listen +11, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak Language (any one), Spot +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (incorporeal touch).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{6\endash 10 HD (Medium-size); 11\endash 15 HD (Large).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Charred One: }{CR 5; Medium-size undead (fire, incorporeal); HD 11d12; hp 71; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection); BAB +5; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +7 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); Full Atk +7 melee (2d10 fire, incorporeal touch); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ darkvision 6
0 ft., fire subtype, heat (DC 15), incorporeal subtype, locate killer, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +12; AP 0; Rep +0 Str \emdash , Dex 13, Con \emdash , Int 6, Wis 17, Cha 13.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +10, Intimidate +10, Listen +13, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak Language (any one), Spot +13.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (incorporeal touch).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CHEMICAL GOLEM
\par }{A typical chemical golem stands about 9 feet tall and weighs approximately 4,000 pounds.
\par A chemical golem is incapable of speech, though it can understand any language spoken by its creator.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Berserk (Ex): }{
When a chemical golem enters combat, it has a cumulative 1% chance each round of going berserk. When the uncontrolled golem goes on a rampage, it
 attacks the nearest living creature. It no creature is within reach, it smashes some object smaller than itself, then moves on to spread more destruction. Once the golem goes berserk, no known method can reestablish control.
\par }{\b Breath Weapon (Ex): }{Once every
 1d4 rounds, a chemical golem can breathe a 30-foot cone of acid and toxic fumes. Each creature in the area takes 5d6 points of acid damage (Reflex half) and 1d4 points of Constitution damage (Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/2 the gole
m\rquote s Hit Dice.
\par }{\b Chemical Healing (Ex): }{A chemical golem does not heal normally, but it can drink toxic liquids (such as acid, poison, or cleaning supplies) to heal itself. The creature heals 1 point of damage per 8 points of Purchase DC that it consumes in to
xic chemicals. A chemical golem has no ability to discern which substances can heal it, so its creator must either command it to drink the appropriate chemicals on the spot or provide it with precise commands and a ready supply so that it can heal itself.
 A chemical golem gains no benefit from drinking a substance not considered immediately harmful to humans. The consumed liquids mix with the chemicals inside the golem and are destroyed.
\par }{\b Construct: }{A chemical golem has the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 15/+1 (Su): }{A chemical golem ignores the first 15 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the chemical golem\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Magic Immunity (Ex): }{A chemical golem is immune to all spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural effects, except one. A }{\i neutralize poison }{spell or effect slows the creature (as the }{\i slow }{
spell) for 2d6 rounds, with no saving throw.
\par }{\b Rupture (Ex): }{If the chemical golem takes at least 10 points of damage (after damage reduction) from a single hit with a piercing or slashing weapon, its membrane ruptures, spraying a 10-foot 
cone of burning liquid and noxious fumes in the direction from which the attack originated. Each creature in the area takes 2d6 points of fire damage (Reflex half) and 1d4 points of Constitution damage (Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/
2 the golem\rquote s Hit Dice.
\par When the chemical golem is reduced to 0 hit points, its membrane collapses, spilling out all the remaining chemicals inside as a 15-foot-radius burst of acid, flame, and deadly gases. Every creature in the area takes 10d6 points of d
amage (half acid and half fire; Reflex half) and 2d4 points of Constitution damage (Fortitude negates). The DC for both saves is 10 + 1/2 the golem\rquote s Hit Dice.
\par }{\b 
\par Chemical Golem: }{CR 10; Large construct; HD 9d10; hp 49; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft (can\rquote t run); Defense 20, touch 8, flat-footed 19 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +10 natural); BAB +11; Grap +15; Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, 2 slams) or +10 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ berserk, breath weapon, chemical healing, construct, 
damage reduction 15/+1, magic immunity, rupture; AL creator; SV Fort +3, Ref+2 , Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 23, Dex 9, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{10\endash 18 HD (Large); 19\endash 27 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Chemical Golem: }{CR 13; Huge construct; HD 19d10; hp 104; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 20 ft (can\rquote t run); Defense 23, touch 8, flat-footed 18 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +13 natural); BAB +11; Grap +15; Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, slam); Full Atk +11 melee (2d8+6, 2 slams) or +10 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft
.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ berserk, breath weapon, chemical healing, construct, damage reduction 15/+1, magic immunity, rupture; AL creator; SV Fort +6, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 31, Dex 7, Con \emdash , Int \emdash , Wis 10, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CHIMPANZEE
\par }{The statistics below represent a chimpanzee, but they can also be used for any ape or monkey of similar size, such as a howler monkey. Most such animals are omnivorous, although some can be quite fierce and aggressive.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{
To use this ability, the chimpanzee must hit a single opponent that is its own size category or smaller with both slam attacks in the same round. During any round that it grapples such a creature, the chimpanzee may make one additional grapple check as a
 free action at its highest attack bonus. On a successful hit with such an attack, it automatically deals bite and slam damage to its foe.
\par }{\b Bonus Feat: }{A chimpanzee gains Weapon Finesse (slam) as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A chimpanzee gains a +8 species bonus on Climb checks and a +4 species bonus on Jump checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Chimpanzee: }{CR 1/3; Small animal; HD 1d8+1; hp 5; Mas 13; Init +3; Spd 30 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flatfooted 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 2; Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1d4+2, bite) and 
\endash 1 melee (1d2+1, 2 slams); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ improved grab, low-light vision; AL none or trainer; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 8.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +14, Hide +6, Jump +7, Listen +5, Move Silently +6, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Weapon Finesse (slam).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{2\endash 3 HD (Small).
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAWFORDSVILLE MONSTER
\par }{A Crawfordsville monster appears as a gigantic amoeba floating through the air. A typical specimen measures 20 feet in diameter but weighs only 500 pounds.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Acidic Enzymes (Ex): }{Any creature that takes damage from a Crawfordsville monster\rquote 
s slam attack also takes 1d6 points of acid damage from its digestive enzymes. These enzymes continue to di
ssolve the victim even after the attack, dealing 1d6 points of acid damage each round until the wound is washed with at least 1 pint of water (or some other appropriate liquid).
\par }{\b Engulf (Ex): }{A Crawfordsville monster can simply bowl over opponents up to one size category smaller than itself as a attack action during a move action. This attack affects as many opponents as the monster\rquote 
s body can cover. Each target can make either an attack of opportunity against the Crawfordsville monster or a Reflex save (DC 13) to avoid being engulfed. A successful saving throw indicates that the target has been pushed back or aside (target\rquote 
s choice) as the monster moves forward. An engulfed creature is considered grappled and trapped within the monster\rquote s body. A Crawfordsvil
le monster cannot make a slam attack during a round in which it attempts to engulf, but each engulfed creature takes 2d6 points of acid damage on that round and every round thereafter that it remains trapped.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A Crawfordsville monster is immune to damage from piercing weapons.
\par }{\b Natural Invisibility (Su): }{A Crawfordsville monster remains invisible even when attacking. Any creature that correctly discerns its location despite being unable to see it has a 50% miss chance on melee and ranged atta
cks. The miss chance drops to 20% after the Crawfordsville monster has successfully engulfed at least one Small or larger creature or four or more Tiny creatures, because of the pink shade its body acquires. This ability is always active.
\par }{\b Ooze}{: A Crawfordsville monster has the traits and immunities common to oozes.
\par }{\b Sonic/Concussion Vulnerability (Ex): }{A Crawfordsville monster takes double damage from attacks that deal sonic or concussion damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Crawfordsville Monster: }{CR 9; Huge ooze; HD 8d10+52; hp 96; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 11, touch 6, flat-footed 11 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +6; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d6+9 plus 1d6 acid, slam); Full Atk +13 melee (2d6+9 plus 1d6 acid, 2 slams); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10
 ft.; SQ acidic enzymes, blindsight 60 ft., engulf, immune to piercing weapons, natural invisibility, ooze, sonic/concussion vulnerability; AL none; SV Fort +6, Ref +0, Will \endash 3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 6, Con 18, Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.

\par }{\b Skills}{: None.
\par }{\b Feats}{: None.
\par }{\b Advancement}{: 9\endash 18 HD (Huge); 19\endash 27 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Crawfordsville Monster: }{CR 12; Gargantuan ooze; HD 19d10+135; hp 239; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 2; Spd 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (average); Defense 13, touch 7, flat-footed 13 (\endash 4 size, \endash 2 Dex, +9 natural); B
AB +14; Grap +39; Atk +23 melee (2d8+13 plus 1d6 acid, slam); Full Atk +23/+18/+13 melee (2d8+13 plus 1d6 acid, slam); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ acidic enzymes, blindsight 60 ft., engulf, natural invisibility, ooze, piercing immunity, sonic/co
ncussion vulnerability; AL none; SV Fort +12, Ref +4, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 6, Con 22, Int \emdash , Wis 1, Cha 1.
\par }{\b Skills}{: None.
\par }{\b Feats}{: None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par CRAWLING CLAW
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Construct: }{Crawling claws have the traits and immunities common to constructs.
\par }{\b Gaze Immunity (Ex): }{Because it lacks eyes, a crawling claw is immune to gaze attacks.
\par }{\b Smite Fallen (Ex): }{A crawling claw\rquote s attacks deal double damage against prone combatants.
\par }{\b 
\par Crawling Claw: }{CR 1/3; Diminutive construct; HD 1d10; hp 5; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 15 (+4 size, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
12; Atk +4 melee (1, claw); Full Atk +4 melee (1, claw); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ construct, gaze immunity, smite fallen, spell resistance 10; AL any; SV Fort +0, Ref +0, Will \endash 3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 10, Con \emdash , Int \emdash 
, Wis 5, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{None.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Create Crawling Claw
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Transmutation [Evil]
\par }{\b Level: }{Mage 3; }{\b Components: }{V, S, M; }{\b Casting Time: }{1 hour; }{\b Range: }{Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); }{\b Targets: }{Severed human left hands within a 5-foot-radius circle; }{\b Duration: }{Instantaneous; }{\b Saving Throw: }{
None; }{\b Spell Resistance: }{Yes (harmless)
\par You create a number of crawling claws up to twice your caster level. The hands to be transformed must all b
e within a 5-foot-radius circle. Once created, the group of crawling claws obeys your telepathic commands as long as the instructions are simple and you are within 100 feet. If you give the crawling claws simple standing orders before moving out of range,
 they obey these orders to the best of their ability until you return and issue new orders. Otherwise, they mill about aimlessly, attacking anything that moves into their space.
\par }{\i Material Component: }{Clippings from a ghoul\rquote s fingernails, and a ring that someone else lost.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DEMONIC MACHINE
\par }{A demonic machine has the normal dimensions, weight, and appearance of its mundane counterpart, and to all outward appearances, it is a perfectly normal machine. Any sort of device that has sufficiently dangerous moving parts\emdash 
a printing press, a farm combine, an industrial shredder, or the like\emdash is an excellent candidate for fiendish possession.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i Charm Person }{\b (Sp): }{Once per day, as a full-round action, the demonic machine can use }{\i charm person }{(manifester level 5th
; save DC 8).
\par }{\b Construct: }{A demonic machine has the traits and immunities common to constructs. Unlike most constructs, however, it has an Intelligence score supplied by the demonic force that animates it.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Su): }{A demonic machine ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the demonic machine\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Feats: }{Though technically a construct, a demonic machine is animated by a fell presence from beyond Shadow. It gains feats as an outsider (1, plus 1 feat per 4 HD beyond 1 HD).
\par }{\b Grind (Ex): }{A demonic machine may make a grind attack (at its normal attack bonus) against a grappled creature, dealing double claw damage plus its Strength modifier.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the demonic machine must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its claw 
attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals claw damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can grind in the next round.
\par }{\b Machine Possession: }{The animating force in a demonic machine is a demon from beyond Shadow. This creature can, at any time, choose to abandon one machine as a free action and possess another as an attack action.
\par }{\b Skills: }{A demonic machine gains skills as if it were an outsider (8 + Int modifier per HD).
\par }{\b 
\par Demonic Machine: }{CR 5; Large construct; HD 5d10+15; hp 42; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 13, touch 8, flat-footed 13 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +3; Grap +12; Atk +7 melee (1d6+5, claw); Full Atk +7 melee (1d6+5, 2 claws); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ construct, damage reduction 10/+1, improved grab, gr
ind (2d6+5), machine possession; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +0, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 20, Dex 8, Con \emdash , Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +5, Listen +10, Sense Motive +8, Spot +10.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{6\endash 7 HD (Large); 8\endash 15 HD (Huge).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Demonic Machine (industrial shredder): }{CR 8; Huge construct; HD 8d10+20; hp 64; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 6, flat-footed 14 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
2 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +6; Grap +23; Atk +13 melee (2d4+9, claw); Full Atk 
+13 melee (2d4+9, 2 claws); FS 15 ft. by 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SA improved grab, grind (4d4+9); SQ construct, damage reduction 10/+1, improved grab, grind, possession; AL evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 6, Con \emdash 
, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +11, Listen +16, Sense Motive +14, Spot +16.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DIMENSIONAL HORROR
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{A dimensional horror can ascertain all creatures and objects within 30 feet in both the normal wo
rld and its own coexistent dimension. The dimensional horror\rquote s blindsight is not dependent on vision, echolocation, vibrations, or scent; rather, it is gained through an unknown sense that detects the space objects and creatures occupy.
\par Although a dimensional horror can be blinded and deafened normally, nothing can rob it of its blindsight.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the dimensional horror must hit a single opponent that is its own size category or smaller with both claw attacks in the same ro
und. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals damage for two claw attacks each round that the hold is maintained, and it can attempt to use its shift dimension ability (see below) in the same round.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a dimensional horror to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par The dimensional horror may use its scent ability against creatures in the normal world even while it is in its coexistent dimension (see below).
\par }{\b Shift Dimension (Su): }{This abil
ity, usable at will, allows the dimensional horror to move from the normal world to a coexistent dimension or back again as a free action. Any creature grappled by the dimensional horror as it shifts must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 the di
mensional horror\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or be taken along to the other dimension. 
\par Any creature in this alternate dimension is invisible and intangible with respect to the normal world. Creatures there cannot see or hear dimensionally shifted c
reatures; to anyone watching a shift from the normal world, it appears that the affected creature simply ceases to exist. Creatures within the coexistent dimension can see, hear, and affect each other normally, and they can also see and hear the normal wo
r
ld. No visual cue differentiates creatures in one dimension from those in the other, so creatures unwillingly brought to the coexistent dimension may be confused when their companions seem unable to see them anymore. A dimensional horror, however, innatel
y knows which of the two dimensions any creature within range of its blindsight occupies.
\par A dimension-shifted creature is unable to affect anything in the normal world and can pass through nonshifted objects harmlessly. The coexistent dimension effectively 
lacks gravity, so a shifted creature can move about at its base speed in any direction or orientation it desires. However, the physics of movement for objects remains the same as in the normal world. A dropped object falls at the same rate as it would in 
the normal world and comes to rest on the \'93floor,\'94 but creatures and the objects they carry do not fall when dropped and can be pushed through the \'93floor\'94 or through other objects that are solid in the normal world.
\par Though the coexistent dimension has no at
mosphere as such, any shifted creature can breathe normally there. These phenomena baffle scientists and will likely continue to do so until some safe and reliable means of accessing the alternate dimension is established.
\par A dimensional horror can remain i
n the coexistent dimension as long as it wishes. Any other shifted creature or object remains there as long as it is grappled or held by a dimensional horror and for 1 minute thereafter. When that time elapses, the creature instantly shifts back to the no
r
mal world. When a dimensional horror dies, all creatures it shifted to the coexistent dimension instantly return to the normal world, along with the corpse of the dimensional horror. Creatures that arrive in the normal world within a solid object or creat
u
re are pushed out of the obstruction and into the nearest open space, taking 1d6 points of damage for each 5 feet so traveled. The object or creature within which the shifter arrived is unharmed by the process. Dimensional horrors often take care to hide 
their victims\rquote  bodies in caverns and other open spaces deep underground or in hollow trees, so that when they automatically shift back to the normal world, they will not be obvious.
\par }{\i True seeing, see invisibility, }{and similar effects make dimensionally shifted creatures visible to creatures in the normal world, and }{\i dispel magic }{
returns them there, automatically breaking the grapple of any dimensional horrors that hold them.
\par Attempts by scientists to harness the dimensional horrors\rquote  alternate space have had li
ttle success, partially because such efforts seem to attract the attention of dimensional horrors. Nevertheless, a few technological items have been created to combat these terrors from beyond (New FX Equipment, below).
\par }{\b 
\par Dimensional Horror: }{CR 7; Large outsider; HD 6d8+18; hp 45; Mas 16; Init +2; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 18, touch 11, flatfooted 16 (\endash 
1 size, +2 Dex, +7 natural); BAB +6; Grap +16; Atk +11 melee (1d6+9, claw); Full Atk +11 melee (1d6+6, 2 claws) and +9 melee (1d8+3, 2 bites); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; 
Reach 10 ft; SQ blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, scent, shift dimension (DC 15); AL none; SV Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 15, Con 16, Int 9, Wis 15, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +11, Navigate +4, Search +5, Sense Motive +6,
\par Spot +11, Survival +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Multiattack, Track.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 12 HD (Huge); 13\endash 24 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Dimensional Horror: }{CR 13; Gargantuan outsider; HD 14d8+98; hp 161; Mas 24; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 21, touch 7, flat-footed 20 (-4 s
ize, +1 Dex, +14 natural); BAB +14; Grap +39; Atk +23 melee (2d6+19, claw); Full Atk +23 melee (2d6+13, 2 claws) and +21 melee (2d8+6, 2 bites); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft; SQ blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 60 ft., improved grab, scent, shift dimensi
on (DC 19); AL none; SV Fort +16, Ref +10, Will +11; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 36, Dex 13, Con 24, Int 9, Wis 15, Cha 14.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +19, Navigate +16, Search +15, Sense Motive +16, Spot +19, Survival +19.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Cleave, Multiattack, Power Attack, Track.
\par }{\fs24 
\par New Equipment
\par }{The scientific experimentation needed to develop the equipment below frequently attracted attention from the very horrors that the items were designed to combat. Many people died to bring these items into being, and many more will die unless they 
can be put to good use.
\par }{\b Dimensional Transformer: }{Acting on the few available reports of the coexistent dimension inhabited by dimensional horrors, scientists set to work attempting to access it. After ten years of study and many disastrous trials, it becam
e clear that only very small objects could safely be shifted to this dimension and then only for short periods. Since then, all efforts have been devoted to miniaturizing the technology and making it more reliable. The result of this development is the di
mensional transformer.
\par A dimensional transformer is a bulky, suppressorlike device that can be attached to nearly any properly fitted handgun or longarm gun barrel with a successful Repair check (DC 15). Once activated (a move action), the dimensional trans
former shifts any bullet fired from the gun into the realm of the dimensional horrors. The bullet shifts just before leaving the barrel and remains in the other dimension for only a few seconds. This effect allows the wielder to fire at dimensional horror
s and other shifted targets even though they are not visible or tangible. The effects of the target\rquote s invisibility still apply (a 50% miss chance, assuming that the shooter targets the correct square).
\par Although its accuracy leaves much to be desired because of this miss chance, the dimensional transformer has proven useful in many encounters with dimensional horrors. The device can shift 200 bullets before it burns out and becomes ineffective.
\par An interesting side effect of the dimensional transformer was discovered during its first live test. A dimensional horror grabbed a soldier, who managed to escape the creature\rquote 
s grasp after it had taken him to the other dimension. The soldier immediately fired several shots at the creature with his weapon. The bullets had no effect on the dimensional horror, but they struck and killed two of the soldier\rquote 
s compatriots in the normal world before he realized what was happening. When fired in the coexistent dimension, a dimensional transformer shifts bullets into the normal 
world, allowing them to strike targets there. They then shift back to the coexistent dimension, where they remain for 1 minute before reappearing in the normal world. Fortunately, dimensional horrors seem incapable of manipulating guns well enough to fire
 
them. The potential of the dimensional transformer as a means to flawless, evidencefree assassinations is just one of the many reasons that governments around the world continue to study dimensional horrors and their realm, despite the grave dangers of su
ch experimentation.
\par }{\i Size: }{Small; }{\i Purchase DC: }{34; }{\i Purchase Restriction: }{Military; }{\i Weight: }{3 lb.
\par }{\b Shift Detector: }{A shift detector looks like a bulky, portable satellite receiver, but its clumsy shape hides an extremely complicated system designed to project 
a field of specially charged subatomic particles and detect disturbances in their flow. When a dimensionally shifted creature  enters the field, the detector\rquote 
s alarm sounds, alerting those nearby to the presence of such a creature. (Alternatively, the devi
ce can be wired to a networked alert system that relays the alarm elsewhere.) The field projects outward from the shift detector in a 10- to 60-foot radius, and it can detect shifted creatures within or on the other side of objects. Unfortunately, the shi
ft detector is imprecise: It cannot pinpoint the direction of the shifted being, and the fields generated by other shift detectors invariably set it off.
\par }{\i Size: }{Medium; }{\i Purchase DC: }{35; }{\i Purchase Restriction: }{Military; }{\i Weight: }{40 lb.
\par }{\b Shift Extender: }{Scientist
s have been unable to perfect any means of transferring creatures or objects as large as dimensional horrors from one dimension to another. However, they have created a device that extends the amount of time a creature remains shifted once a dimensional h
orror has taken it to the coexistent dimension. Though it is somewhat awkward to use, this device, called a shift extender, has proven to be highly useful in fighting dimensional horrors.
\par A shift extender is a surprisingly small device about the size and sh
ape of a brick, with two nets made of long wires and cables extending from the top. When these nets are wrapped around a creature or object weighing no more than 300 pounds, the shift extender is ready for use. The device activates automatically when the 
creature or object to which it is attached is shifted to the dimensional horror\rquote 
s realm. Both the shift extender and its attachment remain shifted for an extra 2d10 rounds beyond the usual 1- minute duration after release in the coexistent dimension. If the
 wearer of the device is grappled again by a dimensional horror during this period, the device resets, providing another 2d10 rounds of extra time after the next release. When the extra time has elapsed, the device and the object or creature to which it i
s attached return to the normal world. If desired, the wearer can return to the normal world before the time is up by manually shutting off the device. Doing so requires a move action to disconnect the cables.
\par }{\i Size: }{Small; }{\i Purchase DC: }{32; }{\i Purchase Restriction: }{Military; }{\i Weight: }{8 lb.
\par }{\fs24 
\par DINOSAUR, PLESIOSAUR
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a plesiosaur to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. 

\par }{\b 
\par Plesiosaur: }{CR 10; Gargantuan animal (aquatic); HD 16d8+112; hp 184; Mas 24; Init +0; Spd 10 ft., swim 50 ft.; Defense 12, touch 6, flat-footed 12 (\endash 
4 size, +6 natural); BAB +12; Grap +36; Atk +20 melee (2d8+18, bite); Full Atk +20 melee (2d8+18, bite); FS 20 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ scent; AL none; SV Fort +17, Ref +10, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 34, Dex 10, Con 24, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 9.

\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{17\endash 31 HD (Gargantuan); 32\endash 45 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\fs24 
\par DINOSAUR, PTERADON
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a pteradon to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b 
\par Pteradon: }{CR 2; Large animal; HD 4d8; hp 18; Mas 10; Init +3; Spd 20 ft., fly 40 ft. (good); Defense 15, touch 13, flat-footed 12 (+3 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +2; Grap +7; Atk +2 melee (1d8+1, bite); Full Atk +2 melee (1d8+1, bite) and \endash 
3 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ scent; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 16, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +3, Move Silently +8, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{5\endash 8 HD (Large); 9\endash 14 HD (Huge).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {DINOSAUR, TYRANNOSAUR
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{
To use this ability, the tyrannosaur must hit an opponent two or more size categories smaller than itself with its bite
 attack. If it gets a hold, it shakes the grabbed opponent back and forth, automatically dealing bite damage each round. Once the opponent stops resisting, the tyrannosaur attempts to swallow on its next turn.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a tyrannosaur to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Swallow Whole (Ex): }{If a tyrannosaur begins its turn with an opponent two or more size categories smaller than itself held in its mouth, it can attempt a new grapple check a
s though trying to pin the opponent. If it succeeds, it swallows its opponent, automatically dealing bite damage. Once inside the tyrannosaur, the opponent takes bludgeoning damage equal to the tyrannosaur\rquote 
s bite attack plus 1d6 points of acid damage per round from the monster\rquote s gizzard. A successful grapple check allows the swallowed creature to climb out of the gizzard and return to the tyrannosaur\rquote 
s maw, where another successful grapple check is needed to get free. Alternatively, the swallowed creature c
an attack from inside the gizzard using claws or a Small or Tiny slashing weapon. Dealing at least 25 points of damage to the gizzard (Defense 20) in this way creates an opening large enough to permit escape. Once the creature exits, the tyrannosaur must 
make a successful Fortitude save (DC 20) or die, whether or not the full amount of damage was dealt with a single blow. A Huge tyrannosaur\rquote s gizzard can hold 2 Medium-size, 8 Small, 32 Tiny, or 128 Diminutive or smaller opponents.
\par }{\b 
\par Tyrannosaur: }{CR 11; Huge animal; HD 20d8+80; hp 170; Mas 19; Init +1; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 14, touch 9, flat-footed 13 (\endash 
2 size, +1 Dex, +5 natural); BAB +15; Grap +32; Atk +22 melee (4d6+13, bite); Full Atk +22 melee (4d6+13, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ improved g
rab, scent, swallow whole; AL none; SV Fort +16, Ref +13, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 28, Dex 12, Con 19, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +11, Spot +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{21\endash 36 HD (Gargantuan); 37\endash 54 HD (Colossal).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {DOOM HAG
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Standing 6 feet ta
ll and weighing 175 pounds, a doom hag resembles a grizzled crone. It is always clad in a shabby, tattered dress and shawl of a drab color.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i Confusion }{\b (Sp): }{A doom hag can use }{\i confusion }{three times per day, as the spell cast by a 9th-level Ma
ge (Will save negates; save DC 14 + the doom hag\rquote s Charisma modifier). 
\par }{\b Mimicry (Ex): }{A doom hag can imitate (but not necessarily understand) the sounds made by any person or animal it hears.
\par }{\b Natural Invisibility (Su): }{During daylight, a doom hag is naturally invisible and remains so even when attacking. Any creature that correctly discerns the doom hag\rquote 
s location despite being unable to see it has a 50% miss chance on melee and ranged attacks. This ability is always active, but the doom hag can suppress it
 for 1 round with a successful Concentration check (DC 15). A new check at the same DC is required for each subsequent round that it wishes to remain visible. The doom hag is visible from sundown to sunup.
\par }{\b Rend (Ex): }{If a doom hag hits with both claw attacks, it latches onto the opponent\rquote s body and tears the flesh. The rending attack deals damage as a claw attack plus 1.5 times the doom hag\rquote s Strength modifier.
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{A doom hag blends into the gloom, gaining a +4 species bonus on Hide checks at night or in darkness.
\par }{\b Undead: }{A doom hag has the traits and immunities common to undead.
\par }{\b 
\par Doom Hag: }{CR 6; Medium-size undead; HD 6d12; hp 39; Mas \emdash ; Init +0; Spd fly 30 ft. (perfect); Defense 18, touch 10, flat-footed 18 (+8 natural); BAB +3; Grap +7; Atk +8 me
lee (1d4+4, claw); Full Atk +8 melee (1d4+4, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ }{\i confusion }{
(DC 17), darkvision 60 ft., mimicry, natural invisibility, rend 1d4+6, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +2, Will +8; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 10, Con \emdash , Int 15, Wis 17, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +11, Concentration +8, Hide +8 (+12 at night or in darkness), Intimidate +8, Knowledge (arcane lore) +10, Listen +10, Move Silently +8, Read/Write Language (any three), Speak Language (any three), Spot +10. 
\par }{\b Feats: }{Simple Weapons Proficiency, Stealthy, Weapon Focus (claw).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Tattered clothing, collections of scalps, teeth, and thighbones.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 15 HD (Medium-size).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {DREAD TREE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Blindsight (Ex): }{A dread tree is blind but can ascerta
in all creatures and objects within 30 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the dread tree.
\par }{\b Double Damage against Objects (Ex): }{A dread tree that makes a full attack against an object or structure deals double damage to it.
\par }{\b Fire Vulnerability (Ex): }{A dread tree takes 50% more damage from fire attacks.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the dread tree must hit an opponent at least one size category smaller than itself with its slam
 attack. If it gets a hold, it automatically deals slam damage each round that the hold is maintained, and it can smash in the next round (see below).
\par }{\b Intoxicating Fruit (Ex): }{The fruit of a dread tree produces a scent that is extremely intriguing to mammals. Any such creature within 100 feet of a dread tree must make a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the dread tree\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or move into its fighting space. Once there, the creature must make another successful Will save (same DC
) or pick and eat the fruit. A creature too small to reach the branches eats fruit that has fallen from the tree. The fruit contains an ingested poison (Fortitude save DC 18; 1d6 Dex/unconsciousness for 2d6 rounds). The toxin remains viable for 1d6 days a
fter picking.
\par }{\b Plant: }{Dread trees have the traits and immunities common to plants.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Because a dread tree is intelligent, it gains skill points as if it were an animal. A dread tree gains a +16 species bonus on Hide checks made in forested areas.
\par }{\b Smash (Ex): }{A dread tree can smash a grappled opponent into its trunk or on the ground, dealing slam damage every round the hold is maintained.
\par }{\b 
\par Dread Tree: }{CR 8; Huge plant; HD 7d8+35; hp 66; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 20, touch 7, flat-footed 20 (\endash 2 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +13 natural); BAB +5; Grap +22; Atk +12 melee (2d6+13, slam); Full Atk +12 melee (2d6+13, slam); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., double damage against objects, fire vulnerability, intoxicating fruit (DC 14), plant, sm
ash 2d6+13; AL evil; SV Fort +10, Ref +1, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 29, Dex 8, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide \endash 6 (+10 in forested areas), Intimidate +4, Listen +5, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{8\endash 16 HD (Huge); 17\endash 21 HD (Gargantuan).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Dread Tree: }{CR 12; Gargantuan plant; HD 17d8+119; hp 195; Mas \emdash ; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 22, touch 5, flat-footed 22 (\endash 4 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +17 natural); BAB +12; Grap +41; Atk +25 melee (2d8+17, slam); Full Atk +25/+20/+15 melee (2d8+17, slam); FS 2
0 ft. by 20 ft.; Reach 15 ft.; SQ blindsight 30 ft., double damage to objects, fire vulnerability, intoxicating fruit (DC 19), plant, smash 2d8+17; AL evil; SV Fort +17, Ref +4, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 37, Dex 8, Con 25, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide \endash 6 (+10 in forested areas), Intimidate +4, Listen +5, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {DROP BEAR
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The minor differences between a drop bear and a koala are discernable only to trained naturalists. A drop bear can even imitate the sleepy demeanor of its genetic co
usins as a sort of behavioral camouflage. Because drop bears can so easily be mistaken for koalas, roughly one-third of all fatalities from drop bear attacks occur when well-meaning tourists try to pose with the creatures for souvenir photographs.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a drop bear to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. 
\par }{\b Stealthy Pounce (Ex): }{If a drop bear leaps upon a flat-footed foe, it can make a full attack even if it has already taken a move action.
\par }{\b 
\par Drop Bear: }{CR 1; Medium-size animal; HD 2d8+4; hp 13; Mas 14; Init +2; Spd 30 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flatfooted 12 (+2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d6+4, bite); Full Atk +4 melee (1d6+4, bite) and \endash 1 
melee (1d4+2, 2 claws); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent, stealthy pounce; AL none; SV Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +1; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 3, Wis 13, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +5, Climb +6, Hide +5, Move Silently +5, Spot +3.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{3\endash 5 HD (Medium-size); 6\endash 8 HD (Large).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ELOHIM
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Elemental: }{An elohim has the traits and immunities common to elementals.
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{When in its fire form (see below), an elohim projects an aura of righteous wrath that is fearsome to behold. Each creature within 30 feet must succeed on a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or cower until the elohim moves out of range, until it stops using its fire form ability, or until 10 rounds have elapsed. Thereafter, the creature is shaken for 24 hours.
\par A creature that makes a successful saving throw or has stopped cowering after a failure is immune to that elohim\rquote s fear aura for 24 hours.
\par }{\b Fire Form (Ex): }{At will, an elohim can assume 
fire form, changing its body and equipment into a pillar of living, semisolid flame. In this form, the elohim can use its flame shield ability and swing its flame sword normally, but any normal, unattended objects it touches immediately catch on fire. Any
 creature that touches or is touched by an elohim in fire form takes 2d6 points of fire damage; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) halves the damage. A creature that grapples with an elohim in this form take
s 4d6 points of fire damage per round of grappling (no saving throw). In fire form, the elohim can deal an extra 2d6 points of fire damage to an opponent with a successful unarmed attack, though it usually prefers to use its flame sword. An elohim in fire
 
form can fly at a speed of 60 feet with perfect maneuverability, and it gains damage reduction 10/+1 and a +10 circumstance bonus on Escape Artist checks. Assuming fire form or reverting to human form requires a full-round action. An elohim that is killed
 or knocked unconscious while in fire form instantly reverts to its human form.
\par }{\b Fire Subtype (Ex): }{Elohim are immune to fire damage and take 50% more damage from cold attacks.
\par }{\b Flame Shield (Su): }{At will as an attack action, an elohim can summon a shield of 
semisolid fire that floats near its body. This shield grants the creature a +2 bonus to Defense, and any adjacent foe that makes a melee attack against the elohim takes 1d6 points of fire damage from the shield.
\par If desired, the elohim can use an attack act
ion to send the flame shield hurtling toward a foe up to 100 feet away with no range penalty. On a successful ranged touch attack, the shield deals 3d6 points of fire damage to the designated foe; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the elohim\rquote 
s Hit Dice + the elohim\rquote s Charisma modifier) halves the damage. The elohim loses the shield\rquote s other benefits, and the shield itself disappears.
\par }{\b Flame Sword (Su): }{At will as a free action, an elohim can summon forth a greatsword made of semisolid fire. The elohim mus
t use both hands to wield this weapon, which deals 2d6 points of damage and 3d6 points of fire damage on a successful hit. The sword threatens a critical hit on a roll of natural 20 and deals double damage on a confirmed critical hit. Should the weapon le
ave the hands of the elohim, it vanishes in a puff of smoke.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{An elohim can speak telepathically to any other creature within 100 feet. Its telepathic words are comprehensible to any intelligent creature, even if the creature and the elohim s
hare no common language. An elohim cannot read thoughts, so any creature that receives a telepathic message from an elohim must respond verbally in a language that the latter can understand in order to converse.
\par }{\b 
\par Elohim: }{CR 8; Medium-size elemental (fire); HD 7d8+21; hp 52; Mas \emdash 
; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect; fire form only); Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural) or 17, touch 11, flat-footed 16 (+1 Dex, +4 natural, +2 flame shield); BAB +5; Grap +6; Atk +6 melee (2d6+1 plus 
3d6 fire, flame sword) or +6 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield); Full Atk +6 melee (2d6+1 and 3d6 fire, flame sword) or +6 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage reduction 10/+1 (fire form only), darkvision 60 
ft., elemental, fear aura (DC 17), fire form (DC 17), fire subtype, flame shield (DC 17), flame sword, telepathy; AL elohim or any, evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +4; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 19.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +10, Diplomacy +10, Gather Information +10, Intimidate +10, Investigate +8, Read/Write English, Read/ Write Language (any two), Research +8, Search +4, Speak English, Speak Language (any two).
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Elohim Charismatic Hero 4: }{CR 12; Medium-size elemental (fire); HD 7d8+21 plus 4d6+12; hp 78; Mas \emdash ; Init +1; Spd 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (perfect; fire form only); Defense 17, touch 12, flatfooted 16 (+1 Dex,
 +4 natural, +1 class, +1 equipment) or 19, touch 12, flat-footed 18 (+1 Dex, +4 natural, +1 class, +1 equipment, +2 flame shield); BAB +7; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (2d6+2 plus 3d6 fire, flame sword) or +9 ranged (2d6, HK MP5) or +8 ranged touch (3d6 fire, f
l
ame shield); Full Atk +8/+3 melee (2d6+2 plus 3d6 fire, flame sword) or +9/+4 ranged (2d6, HK MP5) or +8 ranged touch (3d6 fire, flame shield); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ damage reduction 10/+1 (fire form only), darkvision 60 ft., elemental traits,
 fear aura (DC 20), fire form (DC 20), fire subtype, flame shield (DC 20), flame sword, telepathy; AL evil, elohim or any; SV Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +5; AP 2; Rep +5; Str 12, Dex 13, Con 16, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 20.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +18, Diplomacy +18, Gather Information +15, Intimidate +16, Investigate +8, Profession +9, Read/Write (English), Read/Write (Spanish), Research +8, Search +4, Speak (English), Speak (Spanish).
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Burst Fire, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Trustworthy.
\par }{\b Talents (Charismatic Hero): }{Coordinate, fast-talk.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Light undercover shirt, HK MP5, 60 rounds of 9mm ammunition (2 magazines), cell phone, PDA, briefcase.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ETOILE
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Device Operation (Ex): }{At will
 as an attack action, an etoile can turn on any machine powered by electricity with a touch, even if the device usually requires a key, a passcode, or other security bypass to activate. If the object lacks a power source, it operates for only 1 round afte
r
 activation. If desired, an etoile can supply continuous power to operate an unpowered device. To do so, it must keep all three pincers in contact with the device, and it can do nothing else except move (assuming it can lift the device). A single etoile g
e
nerates enough power to continuously operate a desktop computer. Multiple etoile supplying power to the same device increase the available power in direct proportion to their number; that is, doubling the number of etoile doubles the available power, trip
ling it triples the power, and so on.
\par }{\b Electric Shock (Ex): }{When an etoile hits with a melee or melee touch attack, it can choose to shock its foe for an additional 1d6 points of electricity damage as a free action.
\par }{\b Electricity Immunity (Ex): }{Etoile are immune to electricity.
\par }{\b Elemental: }{An etoile has the traits and immunities common to elementals.
\par }{\b Mechanical Healing (Ex): }{An etoile cannot heal normally. To regain hit points lost to damage, it must either be repaired like a mechanical device or devour the corpse of one of its own kind.
\par All the normal rules for healing via the Treat Injury skill can be applied to an etoile, but a Repair check rather than a Treat Injury check is required. Any creature (including an etoile) without a mechanical repair kit takes a 
penalty on Repair checks, just as a character lacking a first aid kit would when making Treat Injury checks.
\par Alternatively, an etoile can consume the body of a dead etoile to heal itself. This process requires an available etoile corpse and three full-roun
d actions. As soon as consumption is complete, the etoile regains all lost hit points and heals all ability damage.
\par }{\b Nannite Infection (Ex): }{Through a process as yet unknown, an etoile naturally produces microscopic machines known as nannites within its bod
y. Once per day as a free action, it can inject these nannites into a foe it has damaged with a pincer. The nannites function as a disease, attacking the host creature\rquote s DNA and transforming its structure and psychology over time.
\par A creature injected with nannites must immediately make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the etoile\rquote s Hit Dice + its Intelligence modifier). On a successful save, the creature\rquote 
s body fights off the infection, destroying the nannites in the process.
\par On a failed save, the creature imme
diately takes 1 point of Dexterity damage and 1 point of Wisdom damage. Each day thereafter, the creature must succeed on a new Fortitude save at the same DC or take 1d3 points of Dexterity damage and 1d3 points of Wisdom damage. Two successful saving thr
o
ws in a row indicate that the creature has fought off the nannite infection, but any damage already taken must heal normally. If an infected creature has an Intelligence score of at least 6 and either its Dexterity or its Wisdom score is reduced to 0 by t
he disease, it is transformed into a sand slave. Such a creature immediately gains the sand slave template (see the \'93Sand Slave\'94
 entry, below), and all ability damage previously dealt by the disease is healed. Thereafter, the new sand slave is a servant of all etoile and can no longer be cured of the nannite infection.
\par Nannite infection has no visible symptoms, and many confuse its debilitating effects with drunkenness or drug use. However, microscopic study of an infected creature\rquote s blood or high-resolution
 x-rays can reveal the nannites and the alterations they have created in its body structure (see the \'93Sand Slave\'94 entry for more information).
\par A creature other than an etoile using the Treat Injury skill to treat the disease takes a \endash 10 penalty on Treat In
jury checks unless it also has at least 5 ranks in both Knowledge (technology) and Knowledge (physical sciences), or 5 ranks in Disable Device.
\par Etoile are immune to nannite infection.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Ex): }{Though it cannot produce sounds, an etoile can communicate its thoughts and desires to any creature within 200 feet that it can see, regardless of intervening matter such as glass. The target creature \'93hears\'94 the etoile
\rquote s thoughts in whatever language it can most easily understand. However, it cannot communicat
e thoughts back to the etoile unless it also has telepathy. Etoile do not normally know any languages other than their own thought-speech, so they often rely on their human agents to act as interpreters.
\par }{\b 
\par Etoile: }{CR 2; Tiny elemental (air, earth); HD 3d8+3; hp 16; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 23, touch 15, flat-footed 20 (+2 size, +3 Dex, +8 natural); BAB +2; Grap \endash 8; Atk +7 melee (1d3\endash 
2 plus 1d6 electricity, pincer); Full Atk +7 melee (1d3\endash 2 plus 1d6 electricity, 3 pincers); FS 2 1/2 f
t. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., device operation, electric shock, electricity immunity, elemental, mechanical healing, nannite infection (DC 16), telepathy; AL etoile, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 7, Dex 16, Con 
12, Int 20, Wis 13, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Computer Use +13, Craft (electrical) +13, Craft (mechanical) +13, Demolitions +9, Disable Device +13, Knowledge (technology) +11; Repair +13, Treat Injury +7. 
\par }{\b Feats: }{Builder, Cautious, Gearhead, Surgery, Weapon Finesse (pincer).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Etoile Techie 5: }{CR 7; Tiny elemental (air, earth); HD 3d8+3 plus 5d6+5; hp 38; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd fly 40 ft. (perfect); Defense 26, touch 18, flat-footed 23 (+2 size, +3 Dex, +8 natural, +3 class); BAB +4; Grap \endash 5; Atk +9 melee (1d3
\endash 1 plus 1d6 electricity, pincer); Full Atk +9 melee (1d3\endash 1 plus 1d6 electricity, 3 pincers); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 5 ft; SQ darkvision 60 ft., device operation, electric shock, electricity immunity, elemental, mechanical hea
ling, nannite infection (DC 19), telepathy; AL etoile, evil; SV Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +3; AP 2; Rep +2; Str 8, Dex 16, Con 12, Int 20, Wis 13, Cha 11.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Computer Use +18, Craft (electrical) +18, Craft (mechanical) +18, Demolitions +14, Disable Device
 +18, Knowledge (earth and life sciences) +10, Knowledge (physical sciences) +10, Knowledge (technology) +16, Read/Write English, Read/Write Japanese, Research +13; Repair +18, Treat Injury +7.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Builder, Cautious, Defensive Martial Arts, Educated (Knowledge [physical sciences], Knowledge [technology]), Gearhead, Surgery, Weapon Finesse (pincer).
\par }{\b Class Features (Techie): }{Build robot, extreme machine, jury-rig +2, mastercraft.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Tiny robot (wheeled, 10 ranks in Disable Device), Diminutive robot (wheeled, 10 ranks in Demolitions).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {FIEND
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fiends appear in countless forms, although their physical characteristics often reflect some sin or other vile aspect.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Fiends share the following traits:
\par }{\b Darkvision (Ex): }{Fiends have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal sight, and a fiend can function with no light at all.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{All fiends have a primary allegiance to evil. Fiends may also have an allegiance to either chaos or law.
\par }{\b Weapon and Armor Proficiency: }{Fiends receive either Archaic Weapons Proficiency or Simple Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat. They are proficient with their natural weapons and any weapon mentioned in their entries. Fiends noted for wearing armo
r gain the bonus feat Armor Proficiency with whatever type of armor they are accustomed to wearing (light, medium, heavy), as well as all lighter types.
\par }{\b Languages: }{Fiends can speak Abyssal (the language of demons) and a number of additional languages equal to their Intelligence bonus. Fiends with an Intelligence of 8 or higher can also read and write these languages.
\par }{\b Special: }{Fiends cannot be raised from the dead.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Baal (Unique Archfiend)
\par }{The archfiend Baal feeds on the corruption of mortals who hunger for 
wealth and power. As the gap between rich and poor grows ever wider, Baal grows ever more powerful. In this age of nearly limitless corporate expansion and official policies that favor greed and dehumanization, his power is at an all-time high.
\par }{\b Alternate Form (Su): }{At will as a free action, Baal can assume the form of a human male or revert to his normal form. He can retain either form indefinitely.
\par }{\b Aura of Greed (Su): }{Once per day as a free action, Baal can create an aura of greed extending out from his body in a 20-foot radius. Except as noted here, the effect functions like the psionic power }{\i domination }{
(manifester level 10th). Each creature within this area must make a successful Will save (DC 21) or be overcome with greed. A creature that fails its savin
g throw must immediately attack another random creature within 60 feet (possibly even Baal himself) and attempt to take its valuables. If no target is within reach, the affected creature must move toward a randomly chosen target it can see and attack it a
s soon as possible. This effect is Charisma-based and lasts for 1d4 rounds. As a move action, Baal can specify one creature for other affected creatures to attack instead of allowing random targeting. In this case, the Will save DC drops to 15.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+2 (Su): }{Baal ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any weapon with a magical bonus lower than +2. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard Baal\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Fear Aura (Su): }{At will as a free action, Baal can create an aura of fear in a 20-foot radius around himself. This effect is otherwise identical to that of a }{\i fear }{spell (caster level 10th; Will DC
 21). A creature that succeeds on the saving throw cannot be affected again by Baal\rquote s fear aura for 24 hours.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Baal is immune to fire and poison.
\par }{\b Resistances (Ex): }{Baal has cold resistance 20 and electricity resistance 20.
\par }{\b Spell-Like Abilities: }{At will\emdash }{\i augury}{, }{\i bane}{, }{\i bestow curse}{, }{\i command}{, }{\i comprehend languages}{, }{\i confusion}{, }{\i detect magical aura}{, }{\i discern lies}{, }{\i dispel magic}{, }{\i enhance ability}{, }{\i 
faith\rquote s fury}{, }{\i fireball}{, }{\i flaming projectiles}{, }{\i flaming wrath}{, }{\i greater command}{, }{\i hold monster}{, }{\i inflict critical wounds}{, }{\i inflict light wounds}{, }{\i inflict moderate wounds}{, }{\i inflict serious wounds
}{, }{\i knock}{, }{\i mass inflict light wounds}{, }{\i passwall}{, }{\i prestidigitation}{, }{\i read magic}{, }{\i see invisibility}{, }{\i telekinesis}{, }{\i true seeing}{, }{\i wall of fire}{. Caster level 10th; save DC 17 + spell level.
\par }{\b 
\par Baal, Charismatic Hero 10/Negotiator 8: }{CR 25; Huge outsider; HD 8d8+80 plus 10d6+100 plus 8d8+80; hp 367; Mas 31; Init +4; Spd 30 ft., fly 80 ft. (poor); Defense 34, touch 12, flat-footed 30 (\endash 
2 size, +4 Dex, +6 class, +16 natural); BAB +19; Grap +36; A
tk +26 melee (2d6+9, claw); Full Atk +26 melee (2d6+9, 2 claws), or +26/+21/+16/+11 melee (by weapon), or +22/+17/+12/+7 ranged; FS 10 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ alternate form, aura of greed, conceal motive, damage reduction 10/+2, darkvision 120 ft.
, fear aura, immune to fire and poison, no sweat, react first, resistances, sow distrust, spell-like abilities, talk down several opponents; AL evil, law; SV Fort +25, Ref +17, Will +24; AP 8; Rep +11; Str 28, Dex 19, Con 31, Int 30, Wis 24, Cha 25.

\par }{\b Occupation: }{Entrepreneur.
\par }{\b Skills:}{, Bluff +44, Computer Use +18, Concentration +16, Diplomacy +44, Forgery +16, Gamble +26, Gather Information +28, Intimidate +43, Knowledge (arcane lore) +29, Knowledge (behavioral sciences) +34, Knowledge (business) +46, Knowledg
e (civics) +46, Knowledge (current events) +40, Knowledge (history) +24, Knowledge (technology) +18, Knowledge (theology and philosophy) +16, Listen +13, Profession +41, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Arabic, Read/Write Dutch, Read/Write English, Read/Wri
t
e French, Read/Write German, Read/Write Greek, Read/ Write Italian, Read/Write Japanese, Read/Write Russian, Read/Write Spanish, Research +19, Sense Motive +32, Speak Abyssal, Speak Arabic, Speak Dutch, Speak English, Speak French, Speak German, Speak Gre
ek, Speak Italian, Speak Japanese, Speak Russian, Speak Spanish, Spot +13.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Cleave, Confident, Deceptive, Educated, Frightful Presence, Iron Will, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Power Attack, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Sunder, Trustworthy, Windfall (\'d74).
\par }{\b Talents (Charismatic Hero): }{Charm (males), coordinate, favor, greater inspiration, inspiration.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Vast personal and corporate wealth, collection of ancient Middle Eastern religious artifacts.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Fleshraker (Knife Fiend)
\par }{\b Bonus Feat: }{A fleshraker gains Archaic Weapons Proficiency as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/Ballistic (Ex): }{A fleshraker ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonballistic weapon.
\par }{\b Death Hunger (Ex): }{A fleshraker that goes 24 hours without killing a human suffers 1d4 points of Constitution damage. This damage cannot be restored until the fleshraker kills a human, at which point the ability damage heals normally.
\par }{\b Fire Resistance 20 (Ex): }{A fleshraker ignores the first 20 points of damage from any attack that deals fire damage.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A fleshraker is immune to slashing and piercing weapons.
\par }{\b Wounding Weapon (Su): }{Any slashing weapon wielded by a fleshraker can inflict terrible wounds that bleed profusely. In addition to 
the normal damage the weapon deals, the target takes 1 point of damage that round and each subsequent round from bleeding. Multiple wounds from a wounding weapon result in cumulative bleeding loss (two wounds for 2 points of damage per round, and so on). 
A successful Treat Injury check (DC 15) or the application of any }{\i cure }{
spell stops the bleeding. The weapon does not retain this ability outside the grasp of a knife fiend, although any bleeding wounds it has inflicted continue to bleed if the fleshraker is disarmed.
\par }{\b 
\par Fleshraker (knife fiend): }{CR 3; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+8; hp 26; Mas 14; Init +4; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 24, touch 14, flat-footed 20 (+4 Dex, +9 natural, +1 leather jacket); BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +9 melee (1d4+1/19\endash 20, knife); Full Atk +9 me
lee (1d4+1/19\endash 20, knife) or +9 ranged (1d4+1/19\endash 
20, knife); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage reduction 10/ballistic, darkvision 60 ft., fire resistance 20, immunities, wounding weapon; AL evil, chaos; SV Fort +6, Ref +8, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 12, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10.

\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +8, Bluff +4, Disguise +4, Escape Artist +8, Hide +8, Knowledge (arcane lore) +6, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +5, Move Silently +8, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write English, Read/Writ
e Latin, Speak English, Speak Abyssal, Speak Latin, Spot +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Finesse (knife), Weapon Focus (knife).
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Leather jacket, casual outfit, hat, 12 knives.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Fleshraker Fast Hero 3: }{CR 6; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+8 plus 3d8+4; hp 43; Mas 14; Init +8; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 28, touch 21, flat-footed 24 (+4 Dex, +9 natural, +4 class, +1 leather jacket); BAB +6; Grap +5; Atk +11 melee (1d4+1/19\endash 
20, knife); Full Atk +11/+6 melee (1d4+1/19\endash 20, knife) or +11/+6 ranged (1d4+1/19\endash 
20, knife); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ damage reduction 10/ballistic, darkvision 60 ft., death hunger, fire resistance 20, immunities, wounding weapon; AL evil, chaos; SV Fort
 +6, Ref +11, Will +6; AP 1; Rep +1; Str 12, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +10, Bluff +7, Disguise +7, Escape Artist +10, Hide +11, Knowledge (arcane lore) +6, Knowledge (behavioral science) +6, Listen +6, Move Silently +11, Read/
Write Abyssal, Read/Write English, Read/Write Latin, Speak English, Speak Abyssal, Speak Latin, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Finesse (knife), Weapon Focus (knife).
\par }{\b Talents (Fast Hero): }{Evasion, uncanny dodge 1.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Leather jacket, casual outfit, hat, 12 knives.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Harriken (Headsnatcher Fiend)
\par }{A harriken can detach its head from its body and replace it with the decapitated head of any humanoid creature. In so doing, it can assume the dead creature\rquote s form.
\par To kill a harriken, one must destroy its head. While wearing the head and assuming the form of another creature, a harriken will usually entrust its detached head to loyal underlings or hide it somewhere safe.
\par }{\b Attach Head (Ex): }{
As an attack or move action, a harriken can attach a head (either its own detached head or the severed head of any Medium-size humanoid creature) to its headless body. It gains the visual, auditory, and olfactory senses of the creature whose head it 
wears; if the creature had low-light vision, for instance, the harriken gains this ability for as long as the head is worn.
\par The creature from which the head is taken must have died within the past 24 hours; otherwise, any attempt by the harriken to graft the head onto its body fails.
\par }{\b Body Blindsight (Ex): }{A harriken\rquote s headless body can sense its surroundings as though it has the blindsight ability with a range of 30 feet. However, without its own head, the harriken loses its darkvision.
\par }{\b Detach Head (Ex): }{As an attack or move action, a harriken can detach the head (either its own head or the severed head of any Medium-size humanoid creature) from its body.
\par }{\b Disguise Self (Su): }{The harriken can assume the appearance of a specific Medium-size humanoid creature by attaching the creature\rquote 
s severed head to its body. The illusion lasts as long as the head remains attached. The harriken does not gain any of the creature\rquote s abilities, mannerisms, or knowledge, but it gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks. Other creatures
 get a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the harriken\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) to pierce the illusion if they interact with it (such as by touching the harriken and having that sensory input not match what they see). A }{\i true seeing }{
spell reveals the harriken\rquote s actual horrific appearance.
\par }{\b Electrical Rejuvenation (Ex): }{A harriken is immune to electricity. Furthermore, it heals 1 point of damage for every die of electricity damage it would take normally. For example, a 6d6 }{\i lightning bolt }{heals 6 points of damag
e to the harriken.
\par }{\b Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): }{A harriken ignores the first 10 points of damage from any attack that deals fire damage.
\par }{\b Indestructible Body (Su): }{While its head is attached to its body, a harriken can be killed. However, if its head is detache
d, the body stops taking damage when reduced to 1 hit point. Any damage dealt to the body that would knock it below 1 hit point is ignored. If the harriken\rquote s detached head is found and destroyed (Defense 7; hp 5), the harriken\rquote 
s body is instantly slain.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{A harriken can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b 
\par Harriken (headsnatcher fiend): }{CR 4; Medium-size outsider; HD 4d8+4; hp 22; Mas 13; Init +0; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 21 (+9 natural, +2 leather armor), touch 10, flatfooted 21; BAB +4; Grap +5; Atk +5 melee (1d6+1, slam) or +5 melee (1d8+1/19\endash 
20, longsword); Full Atk +5 melee (1d6+1, slam) or +5 melee (1d8+1/19\endash 20, longsword) or +4 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Attach head, body blindsigh
t, darkvision 60 ft., detach head, disguise self (DC 15), electrical rejuvenation, fire resistance 10, indestructible body, telepathy; AL evil; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 11, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 15, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +10, Disguise +10 (+20 when using disguise self ability), Hide +6, Intimidate +9, Listen +6, Move Silently +6, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Languages (any three), Sense Motive +6, Speak Abyssal, Speak Languages (any three), Spot +6.

\par }{\b Feat: }{Heroic Surge (1/day).
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Jumping Jack }{\fs22 (Blood Fiend)
\par }{\b Breath Weapon (Su): }{Once every 1d4 rounds, the jumping jack can breathe a 15-foot cone of fire. Each creature in the area takes 2d6 points of fire damage; a successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 the jumping jack\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) halves the damage.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/Silver (Su): }{A jumping jack ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any unsilvered weapon.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{The jumping jack is immune to fire and
\par poison.
\par }{\b Prodigious Leap (Ex): }{The jumping jack can ignore the 20-foot move requirement for making long and high jumps. If it does move 20 feet before attempting a jump, the distance jumped is doubled.
\par }{\b 
\par Jumping Jack (blood fiend): }{CR 2; Medium-size outsider; HD 1d8
+2; hp 6; Mas 14; Init +5; Spd 35 ft.; Defense 18, touch 15, flat-footed 13 (+5 Dex, +3 natural); BAB +1; Grap +2; Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, claw); Full Atk +2 melee (1d4+1, 2 claws) or +6 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ breath weapon (DC 12), damag
e reduction 10/silver, darkvision 60 ft., immunities, prodigious leap; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 20, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Intimidate +4, Jump +8, Read/Write English, Speak English, Tumble +8.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Acrobatic.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Jumping Jack Fast Hero 9: }{CR 11; Medium-size outsider; HD 1d8+2 plus 9d8+18; hp 65; Mas 14; Init +9; Spd 35 ft.; Defense 25, touch 22, flat-footed 20 (+5 Dex, +3 natural, +7 class); BAB +7; Grap +9; Atk +9
 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full Atk +9 melee (1d4+2, 2 claws) or +13 ranged (2d6, Colt Python); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ breath weapon (DC 17), damage reduction 10/silver, darkvision 60 ft., immunities, prodigious leap; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +7, Re
f +11, Will +6; AP 5; Rep +3; Str 15, Dex 20, Con 14, Int 11, Wis 13, Cha 12.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Adventurer.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +14, Intimidate +13, Jump +17, Read/Write English, Speak English, Tumble +17.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Acrobatic, Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Defensive Martial Arts, Dodge, Elusive Target, Heroic Surge, Improved Initiative, Mobility, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Spring Attack.
\par }{\b Talents: }{Evasion, defensive roll, increased speed, uncanny dodge 1, uncanny dodge 2.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Colt Python (fully loaded).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Kwevencha }{\fs22 (Spider Fiend)
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 5/Silver (Ex): }{A kwevencha ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by any unsilvered weapon.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A kwevencha is immune to poison.
\par }{\b Improved Grab (Ex): }{To use this ability, the kwevencha must hit a Small or Medium-size creature with its bite attack. If it gets a hold, it deals automatic damage with its bite on subsequent rounds.
\par }{\b Monstrous Spider Minions: }{A kwevencha has 2d6 Tiny monstrous spiders clinging to its body. It can telepathically command these spiders to attack, but the kwevencha must remain within 100 feet of the monstrous spiders to telepathically control them.

\par }{\b Poison (Ex): }{Bite; contact 1d6 Str/1d6 Str; Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the kwevencha\rquote s Hit Dice + its Constitution modifier) resists.
\par }{\b Spit Poison (Ex): }{A kwevencha can shoot a 20-foot-long line of poisonous spittle at a single target. The save DC and effects of the poison are described above.
\par }{\b Stability (Ex): }{A kwevencha gains a +4 stability bonus on checks to resist trip and bull rush attacks.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{A kwevencha can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b Web Cocoon (Ex): }{A kwevencha uses a spinneret in its abdomen to weave web cocoons around creatures incapacitated by its poison. A creature trapped inside the cocoon is immobile, although breathing is possible through the porous webbing. A kwevencha
\rquote s web cocoon has 20 hit points and a break DC of 26. Dealing damage to the web cocoon deals a like amount of damage to the creature trapped inside.
\par }{\b Skill Bonuses: }{A kwevencha gains a +4 species bonus on Balance, Climb, Jump, and Spot checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Kwevencha (spider fiend): }{CR 7; Large outsider; HD 8d8+24; hp 60; Mas 20; Init +0; Spd 30 ft., climb 30 ft.; Defense 23 (\endash 1 size, +14 natural), touch 10, flat-foot
ed 23; BAB +8; Grap +18; Atk +13 melee (1d8+6 plus poison, bite) or +7 ranged touch (poison spittle); Full Atk +13 melee (1d8+6 plus poison, bite) and +8 melee (1d6+3, 2 claws) or +7 ranged touch (poison spittle); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Dama
ge reduction 5/silver, darkvision 60 ft., immunities, improved grab, monstrous spider minions, poison (DC 17), spit poison, telepathy, web cocoon; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 22, Dex 11, Con 17, Int 8, Wis 13, Cha 12.

\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +11, Climb +17, Hide +3, Intimidate +8, Jump +13, Listen +8, Move Silently +7, Read/Write Abyssal, Speak Abyssal, Spot +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Improved Damage Threshold, Iron Will.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{9\endash 14 HD (Large); 15\endash 21 HD (Huge); or by character class.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Murdergaunt }{\fs22 (Whistling Fiend)
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Ex): }{A murdergaunt ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the fiend\rquote s damage reduction or apply it only to cert
ain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Fire Resistance 10 (Ex): }{A murdergaunt ignores the first 10 points of damage from any attack that deals fire damage.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A murdergaunt is immune to sonic and concussion damage.
\par }{\b Impale (Ex): }{A murdergaunt that hits with one of its armspikes may choose to impale its opponent. An impaled opponent takes armspike damage each round it remains impaled (on the murdergaunt\rquote s turn). An impaled creature must tear free 
of the serrated armspike to move to another square, taking 1d6 points of damage in the process. A murdergaunt must tear its armspike from an impaled opponent to move to another square or to free the limb; pulling free the armspike deals an automatic 1d6 p
oints of damage to the impaled creature, but the murdergaunt cannot use the newly freed armspike to attack that round. 
\par A murdergaunt can impale two Medium-size or smaller creatures at the same time; however, it cannot make an attack (or attack of opportunity) with an armspike that is currently impaling a foe.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{A murdergaunt can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b Whistle (Su): }{A murdergaunt can whistle as a free action every round. Creatures within 120 feet who can hear the murdergaunt\rquote s horrid tune must make a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the murdergaunt\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier).
\par Any creature that fails its Will save cowers until the whistling stops. A cowering creature is frozen in fear, loses its Dexterity bonus, and can take no actions. In addition, a cowering creature takes a \endash 2 penalty to Defense. 
\par A creature that saves against the murdergaunt\rquote s whistle cannot be affected by the same murdergaunt\rquote s whistle for 24 hours. The save DC for the whistle is Charisma-based.
\par }{\b 
\par Murdergaunt (whistling fiend): }{CR 9; Large outsider; HD 9d8+27; hp 67; Mas 17; Init +3; Spd 40 ft., climb 20 ft.; Defense 25 (\endash 1 size, +2 Dex, +14 natural), touch 11, flat-footed 23; BAB +9; Grap +17; Atk +13 melee (1d6+5, arms
pike); Full Atk +13 melee (1d6+5, 2 armspikes) or +12 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 10 ft.; SQ Damage reduction 10/+1, darkvision 60 ft., fire resistance 10, immune to sonic/concussion damage, impale, telepathy, whistle (DC 16); AL evil; SV Fort +9, Re
f +9, Will +7; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 18, Dex 16, Con 16, Int 13, Wis 13, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Balance +12, Climb +13, Escape Artist +12, Hide +14, Jump +13, Listen +10, Move Silently +14, Read/Write  Abyssal, Read/Write Language (any one), Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any one), Spot +10, Tumble +12.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Agile Riposte, Dodge, Stealthy.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Stygilor }{\fs22 (Tumor Fiend)
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 5/Piercing (Ex): }{A stygilor ignores the first 5 points of damage dealt by any nonpiercing weapon.
\par }{\b Disease Sense (Ex): }{A stygilor can sense whether a creature is infected with a disease merely by being within 10 feet of it. It cannot sense nannite infection (see the \'93Etoile\'94 entry for details).
\par }{\b Frightful Presence (Ex): }{A stygilor can use the Frightful Presence 
feat once per round as a free action. All creatures within 10 feet that can see the stygilor and have fewer levels or Hit Dice than the stygilor must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the stygilor\rquote s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or take a 
\endash 2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks for 1d6+2 rounds. A successful save grants immunity to the stygilor\rquote 
s frightful presence for 24 hours. Creatures with an Intelligence of 3 or lower are unaffected. This is a mind-affecting ability.
\par }{\b Immune to Disease (Ex): }{A stygilor is immune to diseases of all sorts.
\par }{\b\i Invisibility }{\b (Sp): }{A stygilor can use }{\i invisibility }{at will (caster level 6th) as an attack action. It often uses this ability to move through hospital wards unseen.
\par }{\b Telepathy (Su): }{A stygilor can communicate telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b Wounding Gaze (Su): }{As a free action, a stygilor can fix its gaze upon a single creature within 30 feet. The target must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the stygilor\rquote s 
Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or take 1d4+2 points of damage, as though struck by one of the stygilor\rquote 
s horrible claws. The target need not be looking at the stygilor, and wounds inflicted by this attack leave nasty scars once healed. This is a mind-affecting ability. The save DC is Charisma-based.
\par }{\b 
\par Stygilor (tumor fiend): }{CR 4; Medium-size outsider; HD 6d8+12; hp 39; Mas 18; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft.; Defense 18 (\endash 1 size, +9 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 18; BAB +6; Grap +8; Atk +8 melee (1d4+2, claw); Full
 Atk +8 melee (1d4+2, 2 claws) and +3 melee (1d6+1, bite) or +5 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ Damage reduction 5/piercing, darkvision 60 ft., disease sense, frightful presence (DC 15), immune to disease, }{\i invisibility}{
, telepathy, wounding gaze (DC 15); AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 8, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +11, Intimidate +11, Knowledge (any one) +10, Listen +9, Read/Write Abyssal, Read/Write Language (any one), Sense Motive +9, Speak Abyssal, Speak Language (any one), Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Frightful Presence, Improved Damage Threshold.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 8 HD (Medium-size); 9\endash 12 (Large); 13\endash 18 HD (Huge).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {FIRE WISP
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {A fire wisp resembles a jet of fire between 6 inches and 1 foot high. Green or blue in color, it flickers a like living flame.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Ability Scores: }{
A fire wisp has no Strength score. It cannot grapple other creatures or be grappled, and it applies its Dexterity modifier instead of its Strength modifier to melee attack rolls.
\par }{\b Blindsight (Ex): }{
A fire wisp can detect the electrical currents in and around creatures and objects within 60 feet. This perception reveals their locations as accurately as normal vision would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with
 respect to the fire wisp.
\par }{\b Elemental: }{A fire wisp has the traits and immunities common to elementals.
\par }{\b Fire Subtype: }{A fire wisp is immune to fire damage and takes 50% more damage from cold attacks.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Su): }{A fire wisp ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the fire wisp\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/ concussion).
\par }{\b Fiery Leap (Ex): }{
A fire wisp can attack multiple creatures in the same round by leaping from one to the next. A fire wisp can attack as many creatures in a single round as it can reach with a full round of movement (40 feet), leaving behind visible 
arcs of green fire between the targets. It makes a separate attack roll for each target, and all attacks are made at the fire wisp\rquote s full attack bonus. A leaping fire wisp does not provoke attacks of opportunity as it enters a target\rquote 
s square.
\par }{\b Gaseous (Ex): }{
The gaseous body of a fire wisp can travel through openings as small as pinholes. A fire wisp cannot enter water or other liquids, but unlike other gaseous creatures, it is affected by wind only if it wishes to be. Even tornado- strength winds pass throu
gh a fire wisp with no effect if it wants to fly in a different direction.
\par }{\b Ignite (Ex): }{Any creature that takes damage from a fire wisp catches on fire.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{Fire wisps are immune to electricity and fire damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Fire Wisp: }{CR 3; Diminutive elemental (fire); HD 2d8; hp 9; Mas \emdash ; Init +4; Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect; can\rquote t run); Defense 18, touch 18, flat-footed 14 (+4 size, +4 Dex); BAB +1; Grap \emdash 
; Atk +9 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); Full Atk +9 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Re
ach 0 ft.; SQ blindsight 60 ft., damage reduction 10/+1, elemental, fiery leap, fire subtype, gaseous, ignite, immunities; AL evil or none; SV Fort +0, Ref +7, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 18, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +3, Spot +3.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{3\endash 4 HD (Diminutive); 5\endash 6 HD (Tiny).
\par }{\b 
\par Advanced Fire Wisp: }{CR 5; Tiny elemental (fire); HD 5d8; hp 22; Mas \emdash ; Init +3; Spd fly 20 ft. (perfect; can\rquote t run); Defense 15, touch 15, flat-footed 12 (+2 size, +3 Dex); BAB +3; Grap \emdash ; Atk 
+8 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); Full Atk +8 melee touch (1d6 fire, touch); FS 1 ft. by 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ blindsight 60 ft., damage reduction 10/+1, elemental, fiery leap, fire subtype, gaseous, ignite, immunities; AL evil or none; SV Fort +1, Ref +
7, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str \emdash , Dex 16, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Heroic Surge (2/day).
\par }{\fs24 
\par GHOUL }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Ghoul\'94 is an acquired template that can be added to any living corporeal creature that has flesh (referred to hereafter as the \'93
base creature\'94). The creature\rquote s type changes to undead. It uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +2.
\par }{\b Hit Dice: }{Change to d12.
\par }{\b Defense: }{The base creature\rquote s natural armor bonus improves by +2.
\par }{\b Attacks: }{A ghoul retains all the attacks of the base creature. It also gains a bite attack and two claw attacks if the base creature didn\rquote t already have them. If the base creature did not have bite or 
claw attacks, use the base damage values in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base creature\rquote s base damage, whichever is greater.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Bite Damage\cell Claw Damage\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Fine \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell \emdash \cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Diminutive \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d2\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Tiny \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d3\cell 1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Small \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d4\cell 1d2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium-size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d6\cell 1d3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Large \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d8\cell 1d4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Huge \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d6\cell 1d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Gargantuan \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d8\cell 2d4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Colossal \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4d6\cell 2d6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b Special Qualities: }{A ghoul retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Create Spawn (Su)}{: If a ghoul\rquote s prey contracts advanced necrotizing faciitis (see below) from the wounds it has sustained and dies from the disease, it rises 1d3 days later as a ghoul. A }{\i remove disease }{
spell cast on the corpse can prevent it from rising.
\par }{\i Disease (Su)}{: A ghoul\rquote s bite infects 
the victim with a supernatural version of streptococcal gangrene (injury; Fort DC 14; incubation period 1d3 days; initial damage 1d3 Con; secondary damage 1d3 Con. If Con damage is sustained, a second saving throw at the same DC is required; failure indic
a
tes that 1 point of the Con damage becomes Con drain instead). This disease, known as advanced necrotizing faciitis, first manifests as an area of redness on the skin near the wound. Over the course of a few days, the redness becomes severe inflammation. 
The skin gradually turns dark purple and forms bloody blisters as the disease devours more and more of the victim\rquote 
s flesh. The disease can be arrested completely through amputation of the affected limb, but most doctors prefer to combat it by surgical removal of all the affected tissue as well as some nearby healthy tissue. A }{\i cure disease }{
spell or a successful Treat Injury check (surgery, DC 25) halts the disease. The GM should roll the check secretly; if it fails, the disease returns again in 1d3 days. 
\par }{\i Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a ghoul to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\i Undead: }{Ghouls have the traits and immunities common
\par to undead.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{Previous allegiances are lost and replaced by allegiances to chaos and evil. Changed allegiances might cause the loss of particular class abilities.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A ghoul gains the following ability score increases: Str +2, Dex +2. As an undead creature, a ghoul has no Constitution score.
\par }{\b Language(s): }{A ghoul can read, write, and speak whatever languages it could in life.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Same as the base creature, modified for new ability scores. A human ghoul retains the extra skill points afforded to all humans.
\par }{\b Feats: }{A ghoul gains Multiattack as a bonus feat, assuming the base creature meets the prerequisites and doesn\rquote t already have the feat. A human ghoul keeps the extra feat it gained as a 1st-level human character.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Ghoul (Human Strong Ordinary 1/Tough Ordinary 1): }{CR 3; Medium-size undead; HD 2d12; hp 13; Mas \emdash 
; Init +2; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +1; Grap +4; Atk +4 melee (1d3+3, claw); Full Atk +4 melee (1d3+3, 2 claw
s) and +2 melee (1d6+1 plus disease, bite) or +3 ranged; FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ create spawn, darkvision 60 ft., disease, scent, undead; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 16, Dex 14, Con \emdash 
, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 8.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Blue collar (class skills: Drive, Intimidate)
\par }{\b Skills: }{Craft (mechanical) +5, Drive +6, Intimidate +3, Knowledge (popular culture) +2, Knowledge (streetwise) +2, Profession +4, Read/ Write English, Repair +2, Speak English, Swim +4.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Brawl, Multiattack, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par GRIMLOCK
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Automatic Language: }{A grimlock can speak (but not read or write) one local surface language.
\par }{\b Blindsight (Ex): }{A grimlock is blind but can ascertain all creatures and objects within 40 feet just as a sighted creature would. Beyond that range, all targets have total concealment with respect to the grimlock.
\par Grimlocks are affected normally by loud noises and sonic spells (such as }{\i shout }{or }{\i silence}{) and overpowering odors (such as a troglodyte\rquote s stench or incense-thick air). Negating a grimlock\rquote 
s sense of either smell or hearing denies it the benefits of blindsight, but the grimlock still functions as though it had the Blind-Fight feat. If both smell and hearing are negated, the grimlock is effectively blind.
\par }{\b Immunities (Ex): }{A grimlock is immune to gaze attacks, visual effects, illusions, and all other attack forms that rely on sight.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a grimlock to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell. 
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{A grimlock\rquote s dull gray skin helps it hide in its native terrain, conferring a +10 species bonus on Hide checks in rocky terrain or underground.
\par }{\b 
\par Grimlock: }{CR 1; Medium-size monstrou
s humanoid; HD 2d8+2; hp 11; Mas 13; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +2; Grap +4; Atk +5 melee (1d6+2 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +4 melee (1d8+2, spear); Full Atk +5 melee (1d6+2 nonlethal, unarmed st
rike) or +4 melee (1d8+2, spear) or +3 ranged (1d8+2, spear); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 40 ft., immunities, scent; AL evil; SV Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +2; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +7, Hide +6 (+16 in rocky terrain or underground), Listen +4, Search +5, Speak English, Survival +2.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Brawl.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Spear.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Grimlock Strong Hero 3: }{CR 4; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 2d8
+2 plus 3d8+3; hp 27; Mas 13; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +4 natural); BAB +5; Grap +7; Atk +9 melee (1d8+4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) or +8 melee (1d8+4, spear); Full Atk +9 melee (1d8+4 nonlethal, unarmed strike) o
r +8 melee (1d8+4, spear) or +6 ranged (1d8+2, compound bow); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ blindsight 40 ft., immunities, scent; AL evil; SV Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 1; Rep +0; Str 15, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6.
\par }{\b Occupation: }{Rural (class skills: Climb, Swim).
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +11, Hide +6 (+16 in rocky terrain or underground), Jump +7, Listen +4, Search +5, Survival +5, Swim +5.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Archaic Weapons Proficiency, Athletic, Brawl, Improved Brawl, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Track, Weapon Focus (spear).
\par }{\b Talents: }{Improved Melee Smash, Melee Smash.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Spear, compound bow with 12 arrows.
\par }{\fs24 
\par HALF-FIEND }{\fs22 (TEMPLATE)
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Template Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\'93Half-fiend\'94 is an inherited template that can be added to any living creature (referred to hereafter as the \'93base creature\'94
) other than a celestial. The creature\rquote s type changes to outsider. It uses all the base creature\rquote s statistics and special abilities except as noted here.
\par }{\b Challenge Rating: }{Same as base creature +2, or +3 if the half-fiend has wings.
\par }{\b Speed: }{There is a 25% chance that a half-fiend has batlike wings. Such a creature can fly at the base creature\rquote s normal speed (average maneuverability).
\par }{\b Defense: }{The base creature\rquote s natural armor bonus improves by +1.
\par }{\b Attacks: }{A half-fiend retains all the attacks of the base creature. It also gains a bite attack and two claw attacks if the base creature didn\rquote 
t already have them. If the base creature did not have bite and claw attacks, use the base damage values in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base creature\rquote s base damage, whichever is greater.
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Size\cell }\pard 
\s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Bite Damage\cell Claw Damage\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Fine \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\cell \emdash \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Diminutive \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d2\cell 1\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Tiny \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d3\cell 1d2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Small \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d4\cell 1d3\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Medium-size \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d6\cell 1d4\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Large \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1d8\cell 1d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Huge \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d6\cell 1d8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Gargantuan \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {2d8\cell 2d6\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Colossal \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {4d6\cell 2d8\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx1164\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2475
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx3886\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b Special Qualities: }{
A half-fiend retains all the special qualities of the base creature and gains the additional special qualities described below.
\par }{\i Darkvision }{(Ex): A half-fiend has darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
\par }{\i Damage Reduction }{(Ex): Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Re
sistances, and Damage Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the half-fiend has damage reduction. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend has no damage reduction. If the campaign includes few or no magic weapons, the GM sho
uld consider allowing specific types of weapons to ignore a half-fiend\rquote s damage reduction or contrive some other special vulnerability. 
\par }{\i Immunities (Ex)}{: Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Resistances, and Damage Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the half-fiend has any immunities. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend has no immunities.
\par }{\i Outsider: }{A half-fiend has the traits common to outsiders.
\par }{\i Resistance to Energy }{(Ex): Roll on Table: Fiend Immunities, Resistances, and D
amage Reduction, subtracting 30 from the die roll, to determine whether the half-fiend has any resistances. If the result is less than 1, the half-fiend has no resistances.
\par }{\i Spell-Like Abilities: }{A half-fiend with an Intelligence or Wisdom score of 8 or higher possesses spell-like abilities according to its character level, as given on the table below. Unless otherwise indicated, each ability is usable once per day.

\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191
\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\pard\plain \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Level\cell }\pard \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Abilities \cell }\pard \s3\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Level\cell 
}\pard \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 {Abilities\cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {1\endash 2\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Mage hand }{3/day \cell }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {11\endash 12\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Levitate\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {3\endash 4
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Daze }{3/day \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {13\endash 14\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Displacement\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {5\endash 6\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Change self \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {15
\endash 16\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Tongues\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {7\endash 8\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Cause fear \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {17\endash 18\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Bestow curse\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {9\endash 10\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Blur \cell }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {19+\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Animate dead\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\i \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx575\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2191\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx2907\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4229\row }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\i 
\par Telepathy }{(Su): A half-fiend with an Intelligence score of 12 or higher can communicate telepathically with any living creature within 100 feet that has a language.
\par }{\b Allegiances: }{A half-fiend always has an allegiance to evil.
\par }{\b Saves: }{Same as the base creature, modified by new ability scores.
\par }{\b Ability Scores: }{A half-fiend gains the following ability score increases: Str +4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +4, Cha +2.
\par }{\b Automatic Language: }{A half-fiend can speak Abyssal.
\par }{\b Skills: }{A half-fiend gains skill points as an outsider of its nonclass Hit Dice. Treat skills from the base creature\rquote s list as class skills. If the creature has a class, it gains skills for class levels normally.
\par }{\b Feats: }{A half-fiend gains feats as an outsider of its nonclass Hit Dice or as the base creature, whichever gives the greater number of feats.
\par }{\fs24 
\par HARPY
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Bonus Feat: }{A harpy gains Flyby Attack as a bonus feat.
\par }{\b Captivating Song (Su): }{The song of a harpy is a sonic, mind-affecting charm effect that fills a 300-foot spread. Every creature within that area that can hear the harpy must succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the harpy\rquote 
s Hit Dice + its Charisma modifier) or become utterly capt
ivated for as long as the harpy sings. A captivated creature immediately begins moving toward the harpy, taking the most direct route available. If its path leads into a dangerous area (through flame, off a building, or the like), the creature is entitled
 to a second saving throw at the same DC to negate the effect.
\par An affected creature within 5 feet of the harpy simply stands there and offers no resistance to the monster\rquote s attacks, although it can defend itself against attacks from other sources. Extremely
 loud music and other noises (such as an air horn) allow the captivated creature a new Will save. A creature that makes a successful saving throw at any point negates the effect and is immune to that harpy\rquote 
s song for 24 hours. A harpy is immune to its own captivating song ability and to those of other harpies.
\par }{\b Species Bonuses: }{The harpy\rquote s amazing voice grants it a +4 species bonus on Perform (act), Perform (sing), and Perform (stand-up) checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Harpy: }{CR 4; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 7d8; hp 31; Ma
s 10; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 80 ft. (average); Defense 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +1 natural, +1 leather jacket); BAB +7; Grap +7; Atk +7 melee (1d8, metal baton); Full Atk +7/+2 melee (1d8, metal baton) or +7 melee (1d4, 2 claws) or +9/+4 ra
nged (2d6, S&W M29); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ captivating song (DC 15); AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +2, Ref +7, Will +5; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha 15.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +6, Listen +5, Perform (act) +8, Perform (sing) +8, Perform (stand-up) +6, Read/Write English, Speak English, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Flyby Attack, Personal Weapon Proficiency, Simple Weapons Proficiency.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Leather jacket, S&W M29 (.44 magnum revolver), 50 rounds of ammunition, metal baton.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{By character class.
\par }{\b 
\par Harpy Charismatic Hero 4: }{CR 8; Medium-size monstrous humanoid; HD 7d8 plus 4d6; hp 45; Mas 10; Init +2; Spd 20 ft., fly 80 ft. (average); Defense 15, touch 13, flat-footed 13 (+2 Dex, +1 class, +1 natural, +1 leather jacket); BAB +9; Gra
p +9; Atk +9 melee (1d8, metal baton); Full Atk +9/+4 melee (1d8, metal baton) or +9 melee (1d4, 2 claws) or +12/+7 ranged (2d6, S&W M29); FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ captivating song (DC 16); AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +9, Will +6; AP 2; Rep 
+6; Str 10, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha 16.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Bluff +10, Knowledge (any two) +2, Listen +5, Perform (act) +11, Perform (sing) +11, Perform (stand-up) +9, Read/Write English, Speak English, Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Flyby Attack, Personal Weapon Proficiency, Point Blank Shot, Renown, Simple Weapons Proficiency, Weapon Focus (S&W M29).
\par }{\b Talents (Charismatic): }{Charm, fast-talk.
\par }{\b Possessions: }{Leather jacket, S&W M29 (.44 magnum revolver), 50 rounds of ammunition, metal baton.
\par }{\fs24 
\par HIPPOPOTAMUS
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Hold Breath (Ex): }{
A hippopotamus can seal its nostrils by muscular action and hold its breath for a number of rounds equal to its Constitution score \'d7 10.
\par }{\b Scent (Ex): }{This ability allows a hippopotamus to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of smell.
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{A hippopotamus is agile in the water, gaining a +4 species bonus on Swim checks.
\par }{\b 
\par Hippopotamus: }{CR 6; Large animal; HD 8d8+40; hp 76; Mas 20; Init \endash 1; Spd 20 ft., swim 20 ft.; Defense 14, touch 8, flatfooted 14 (\endash 1 size, \endash 
1 Dex, +6 natural); BAB +6; Grap +17; Atk +12 melee (2d6+10, bite); Full Atk +12 melee (2d6+10, bite); FS 10 ft. by 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ hold breath, scent; AL none; SV Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +3; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 24, Dex 9, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha
 3.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Listen +7, Swim +11.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{9\endash 16 HD (Large); 17\endash 24 HD (Huge).
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {INFESTER
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b Anesthetic Bite (Ex): }{
The bite of an infester grub releases an anesthetic that numbs nerves. An opponent that does not actually witness the attack must make a successful Wisdom check (DC 20) to notice it.
\par }{\b Attach (Ex): }{If an infester grub successfully deals damage to a warm-blooded opponent, it latches onto the latter\rquote s body in the same round and begins to burrow inside. The burrowing process
 takes 1 round to complete, during which the grub is flat-footed (Defense 16). Once the grub has finished burrowing into the host, only a tiny wound is left to indicate that anything is amiss.
\par }{\b Boost Host (Ex): }{An attached infester constantly pumps endorphins and other chemicals into the host\rquote 
s body, increasing its strength and instilling a sense of euphoria and indestructibility. The host gains a +2 bonus to both Strength and Constitution but takes a \endash 2 penalty to Wisdom. These adjustments begin within 1d6 
rounds of attachment and remain in effect as long as the infester is within the host\rquote s body.
\par }{\b Host Protection (Ex): }{An attached infester uses its host\rquote s base saving throw bonuses if those are better than its own. Effects that target vermin can\rquote t affect an infester inside a host of another type.
\par }{\b Infestation (Ex): }{Once inside its host, an infester grub slowly makes its way through the bloodstream until it reaches the torso, where it takes up residence and begins drawing nutrients from the host\rquote s body. During t
his period, its boost host ability (see above) is constantly in effect.
\par Because of the infester\rquote s unique nutritional needs, even a normally herbivorous host gains an insatiable appetite for raw meat\emdash particularly that of its own species. Some instances of c
annibalism are the result of infesters that drove their hosts beyond the brink of sanity with their lust for meat.
\par After one month of incubation, the infester reaches its full adult size and starts chewing its way out of the host\rquote s torso. This process take
s 1d6 minutes, during which the host experiences excruciating pain. The victim must make a Fortitude save (DC 20) or die when the infester bursts from its torso. Even on a successful save, the host still takes 6d6 points of damage.
\par Once freed from the host
, the adult infester seeks out a pool of filth and mud in which to live. It defends itself against any attacks but otherwise avoids conflict. After 1d6 days, the infester gives birth to thousands of grubs and then perishes, its body providing nourishment 
for its brood. Only a few of these offspring survive beyond the first few hours. The remaining grubs wait patiently until another unsuspecting creature comes along to repeat the cycle.
\par A successful Treat Injury check (DC 25) reveals the presence of an infes
ter inside a host. The parasite can be removed with surgery (Treat Injury DC 30). A failure by 5 or more irritates the infester, which begins burrowing out of the host prematurely, dealing 2d6 points of damage to its host (Fortitude DC 20 half).
\par }{\b Vermin: }{Infesters have blindsight out to a range of 60 feet. They are immune to mind-affecting effects and gain a +5 species bonus on Fortitude saves to negate the effects of massive damage.
\par }{\b 
\par Infester (grub): }{CR 1/10; Fine vermin; HD 1/16 d8; hp 1; Mas 11; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 24, touch 18, flat-footed 16 (+8 size, +6 Dex); BAB +0; Grap \endash 
21; Atk +3 melee (1, bite); Full Atk +3 melee (1, bite); FS 6 in. by 6 in.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ anesthetic bite, attach, blindsight 60 ft., boost host, host protection, infestati
on, vermin; AL none; SV Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 1, Dex 23, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +24, Move Silently +8, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\b 
\par Infester (adult): }{CR 1; Tiny vermin; HD 1d8+3; hp 7; Mas 13; Init +3; Spd 30 ft.; Defense 15, touch 14, flat-footed 12 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural); BAB +0; Grap \endash 9; Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 2, bite); Full Atk +0 melee (1d3\endash 
1, bite); FS 2 1/2 ft. by 2 1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.; SQ blindsight 60 ft., boost host, host protection, infestation, vermin; AL none; SV Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +0; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 6, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 1, Wis 10, Cha 5.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Hide +14, Move Silently +6, Spot +6.
\par }{\b Feats: }{None.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {INTELLECT DEVOURER
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Species Traits
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\i Body Thief }{\b (Sp): }{After rendering its victim helpless with its }{\i mental blast, }{an intellect devourer cracks open the victim
\rquote s skull, devours the brain within, and physically takes its place, sloughing off part of its own body to fit into the cavity. Once safely in control of the victim\rquote s body, the intellect devourer closes the victim\rquote 
s wounds with its psionic powers, then removes all physical evidence of its attack and assumes the victim\rquote s identity.
\par All of its psionic powers function on the possessed body as if it were the creature\rquote s own, so its first act after assuming control is to use }{\i lesser body adjustment }{
to heal the grievous head wound. As long as the victim was not truly dead (hit points reduced to \endash 10) at the time of the cranial invasion, the intellect devourer can control the body co
mpletely, though it may move a bit stiffly. The body theft lasts a maximum of seven days, after which the intellect devourer\rquote s own form once again grows too large to remain inside the cranial cavity.
\par A possessed body uses the ability scores of its controlling intellect devourer, although its Defense is unchanged. It has a maximum of 6 hit points (even when fully healed) and a base attack bonus of +4. The intellect devourer gains none of the victim
\rquote s former class abilities or special qualities.
\par }{\b Damage Reduction 10/+1 (Su): }{An intellect devourer ignores the first 10 points of damage dealt by any nonmagical weapon. In campaigns without magic weapons, the GM can either disregard the intellect devourer\rquote 
s damage reduction or apply it only to certain types of weapons (ballistic, bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or sonic/concussion).
\par }{\b Electricity Resistance 15 (Ex): }{An intellect devourer ignores the first 15 points of electricity damage from any single attack.
\par }{\b Fire Immunity (Ex): }{An intellect devourer is immune to fire damage.
\par }{\b\i Invisibility }{\b (Sp): }{The intellect devourer can become invisible at will, as the }{\i invisibility }{spell (caster level 10th).
\par }{\b\i Psionics }{\b (Sp): }{At will\emdash }{\i domination}{, }{\i lesser body adjustment}{, }{\i mental blast}{. Manifester level 10th; save DC 10 + intellect devourer\rquote s key ability modifier + power level. 
\par }{\b Skill Bonus: }{When an intellect devourer consumes a brain, it absorbs some of the victim\rquote s memories, gaining a +5 competence bonus on Perform (act) checks when trying to pass off the possessed body as the original creature.
\par }{\b 
\par Intellect Devourer: }{CR 8; Small aberration; HD 6d8+12; hp 39; Mas 15; Init +8; Spd 40 ft.; Defense 17, touch 15, flatfooted 13 (+1 size, +4 Dex, +2 natural); BAB +4; Grap +1; Atk +6 melee (1d3+1, claw); Full Atk +6 melee (1d3+1, claw) or +9 ranged;
 FS 5 ft. by 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft.; SQ }{\i body thief, }{damage reduction 10/+1, electricity resistance 15, fire immunity, }{\i invisibility, psionics}{
; AL chaos, evil; SV Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +6; AP 0; Rep +0; Str 13, Dex 19, Con 15, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 10.
\par }{\b Skills: }{Climb +10, Jump +9, Listen +8, Perform (act) +6 (+11 when trying to pass off the possessed body as the original creature), Spot +9.
\par }{\b Feats: }{Alertness, Improved Initiative.
\par }{\b Advancement: }{7\endash 8 HD (Medium-size); 9\endash 12 HD (Large).}{\fs24 
\par }}