{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f116\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f117\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f119\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f120\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Courier New};}
{\f121\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f122\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Courier New};}{\f123\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Courier New};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Cybernetics}{\author asmith}{\operator Andy Smith}
{\creatim\yr2004\mo8\dy31\hr15\min19}{\revtim\yr2004\mo8\dy31\hr15\min19}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords4758}{\nofchars27121}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws33306}{\vern8229}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace78\dgvspace180\dghorigin1080\dgvorigin1080\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs36 CYBERNETICS
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par EVOLUTION OF CYBERNETICS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {As with all forms of technology, advancements in cybernetics can be tracked by Progress Level.
\par }{\b Progress Level 5: }{Cybernetics is still in its formative stage. Most prosthetic units are of the nonpowered variety, but med
ical associations have approved certain electronic regulators for life-threatening conditions. The artificial heart is the most recognized example. Other common examples include pacemakers, artificial kidneys, and pancreas monitors (for high-risk diabetic
s). Nearly all PL 5 cybernetic attachments are simply designed to keep their recipients alive and reasonably healthy. 
\par Elective cybernetics begins at this stage with the work of university professor Kevin Warwick, who develops methods of linking computer microchips to the human nervous system. His \'93cyborg chip\'94
 becomes the foundation for all future cybernetic components.
\par }{\b Progress Level 6: }{This era sees the first use of independently powered cybernetics, including servolimbs and subcutaneous cellular telephon
es. These begin mostly in military applications but soon become available to the public. Household pets all over the world are implanted with subcutaneous identity chips\emdash as are important government figures and their families\emdash 
after the technology proves safe and effective on prison inmates.
\par As cybernetics is still new and can have negative side effects, its adoption is not universal. Most people still prefer mundane equipment, which is generally cheaper, safer, and less troublesome to repair, replace, or upg
rade. Cybernetics becomes the preferred choice only when mundane equipment is impractical or unavailable\emdash  or when the recipient is fixated on self-improvement.
\par Medical plans eventually come to offer at least baseline prosthetics to compensate for disabling injuries, such as the loss or partial loss of a limb, though such plans do not cover elective cybernetic surgery. Their concern is overall health\emdash not 
\'93cosmetic\'94 enhancement. For those who want more than just replacements, a new kind of clinic appears, offering cybernetic enhancements.
\par At this Progress Level, the first cybernetic regulation laws are passed\emdash largely instigated by a few harshly publicized accidents involving cyborgs. These laws give rise to numerous black-market cybernetic clinics that install
 cybernetics without performing the required background checks.
\par }{\b Progress Level 7: }{By this era, cybernetics has become a mostly safe science. Flaws in earlier designs have been corrected. Cybernetics becomes more of a status symbol, and luminous skin grafts
 become the fashion accessory of choice. In some societies, newborn children are implanted with identity chips as an anti-kidnapping measure. Military applications include replacement eyes with heads-up targeting and GPS displays.
\par Insurance regulations rel
ax considerably toward cybernetic replacements at Progress Level 7; enhancements are perfectly acceptable, though only as part of a prosthetic, rather than as elective cyber-surgery. Still, most cyborgs are members of military or law-enforcement organizat
ions\emdash or mercenaries.
\par }{\b Progress Level 8: }{Cyborgs are a common sight. In some societies, medical insurance frowns on noncybernetic replacements, as mechanical body parts are less expensive than flesh. Cybernetic technology has improved so much, in fact, that s
ome cyborgs are virtually indistinguishable from living beings\emdash except that they never appear to age.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs36 
\par CYBERNETIC ATTACHMENTS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Two kinds of cybernetic attachments exist: replacements and enhancements.
\par }{\b Replacements: }{Replacements are prosthetic or artificial u
nits intended to replace lost limbs and damaged organs. Common replacements provide no benefits other than duplicating the essential functions of their biological counterparts, and they present little strain on the beneficiary\rquote 
s overall well-being. In appearance, a cybernetic replacement can be recognizably artificial or virtually indistinguishable from the real thing.
\par }{\b Enhancements: }{Enhancements bestow new abilities or improve the recipient in some fashion. Enhancements include skeletal reinforcement, subcu
taneous communications hardware, and weapon mounts. Some enhancements have visible external components, while others are hidden beneath the skin. Enhancements put more of a drain on the body\rquote 
s resources, and recipients frequently suffer debilitating physical or mental side effects.
\par }{\fs22 
\par CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
\par }{Cybernetic attachments are complex instruments with both electrical and mechanical components. Consequently, a character must have the Craft Cybernetics feat to build a cybernetic attachment.
\par Repairing a 
damaged or nonfunctional cybernetic attachment requires 10 hours of work and a successful Repair check (DC 25). A character needs both an electrical tool kit and a mechanical tool kit to facilitate repairs. Without one or the another, a character takes a 
\endash 4 penalty on the check; without both kits, the penalty increases to \endash 8.
\par }{\fs22 
\par INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL
\par }{Installing or removing a cybernetic attachment, regardless of whether it\rquote s a replacement or enhancement, requires a successful Treat Injury check. A character with the Cybernetic Surgery feat suffers no penalty on the check.
\par Removing a cybernetic attachment without proper surgery causes lasting physical trauma to the patient\rquote s body, dealing 1d4 points of permanent Constitution drain.
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\fs24 NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS
\par }{Only living creatures can have cybernetic attachments. In addition, a living creature can have a maximum number of cybernetic attachments equal to 1 + the creature\rquote s Constitution modifier (minimum 0).
\par A creature may have more cybernetic attachments installed on its body can it can bear. However, the creature gains 1 negative level per cybernetic attachment that exceeds its maximum allowed. For each negative level, the creature takes a \endash 
1 penalty on all skill checks and ability checks, attack rolls, and saving t
hrows, and loses one effective level or Hit Die whenever level is used in a die roll or calculation. Further, a character with psionic powers loses the ability to manifest one power of the highest level she can manifest (player\rquote 
s choice), while a character with spellcasting ability loses the ability to cast one spell of the highest level he can cast. This loss persists until the negative level is removed.
\par Negative levels caused by having too many cybernetic attachments remain until the offending attachments are removed.
\par }{\fs22 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {BENEFITS AND DRAWBACKS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Cybernetic attachments provide countless benefits to their recipients. For example, cybernetic eyes can bestow darkvision, improve the accuracy of the recipient\rquote s ranged attacks, or emit pencil-thin laser beams. A cybe
rnetic brain implant can improve the recipient\rquote 
s response time in a crisis, protect against mind-influencing attacks, or increase the flow of adrenaline throughout the body. The possibilities of cybernetic technology are endless. Although the benefits make
 cybernetics very alluring, the drawbacks are equally discouraging:
\par }{\b ELECTRICITY VULNERABILITY
\par }{A creature with one or more cybernetic attachments takes 50% more damage from any attack that deals electricity damage. This vulnerability to electricity can be offset by an anti-shock implant (see Cybernetic Enhancements, below).
\par }{\b NEGATIVE LEVELS
\par }{Whenever a creature exceeds its maximum number of cybernetic attachments, it gains negative levels until the excess attachments are removed (see Number of Attachments, above).
\par }{\b SUSCEPTIBILITY TO ATTACK 
\par }{External cybernetic attachments are subject to attacks as if they were objects worn by their recipients.
\par }{\b MASSIVE DAMAGE EFFECTS
\par }{Massive damage wreaks havoc with cybernetic attachments. Whenever a creature with cybernetic atta
chments fails a Fortitude save against massive damage, the GM should roll percentile dice and consult Table: Massive Damage Effects to determine what happens.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 
\b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Massive Damage Effects}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d% Roll\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Effect of Failed Fortitude Save\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274
\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 30\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Normal Effect\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {31\endash 60\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Attachment Disabled\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 
\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {61\endash 80\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Normal Effect and Attachment Disabled
\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx4274\row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {81
\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {Attachment Damaged and Side Effect\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx4274\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }{\b Normal Effect: }{The character immediately drops to \endash 1 hit points and is dying.
\par }{\b Attachment Disabled: }{One cybernetic attachment (determined randomly or chosen by the GM) ceases to function until repaired (see Construction and Repair, above). The character suffers the effects of the disability\emdash 
as noted in the description of the cybernetic attachment\emdash  for as long as the attachment remains disabled.
\par }{\b Attachment Damaged: }{One cybernetic attachment (determined randomly or chosen by the GM) continues to function but develops an unpleasant side effect that persists until the attachment is repaired (see Construction and Repair, above).
\par }{\b Side Effect: }{The character suffers a debilitating side effect as the result of a damaged attachment. Various side effects are presented on Table: Side Effects.
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\pard\plain 
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\outlinelevel2\rin0\lin0 \b\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Table: Side Effects}{\b0 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trkeep\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b d% Roll\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\b Side Effect\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\b \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {01\endash 08\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Blurred Vision: }{Character suffers a 20% miss chance on all attacks.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {09\endash 17\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Constant Trembling: }{Character takes a \endash 2 penalty on Dexterity-based skill checks.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {18\endash 25\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Cybernetic Rejection: }{Character suffers 1d4 points of Constitution damage per day.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {26\endash 34\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Dizziness: }{Character takes a \endash 1 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, and skill checks.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {35\endash 42\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Impaired Hearing: }{Static distortion imposes a \endash 2 penalty on all Listen checks.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {43\endash 50\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Impaired Vision: }{Distorted images impose a \endash 2 penalty on Spot checks.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {51\endash 59\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Insomnia: }{Character can only sleep for minutes at a time and gains insufficient rest to heal naturally.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {60\endash 67\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Muscle Cramps: }{Character moves at half speed.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {68\endash 76\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Muscle Fatigue: }{Character takes a \endash 2 penalty on Strength-based skill checks.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {77\endash 84\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Power Surge: }{Character is shaken for 1 round if wounded; a successful Fortitude save (DC 12) negates.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {85\endash 93\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i 
Psychosis: }{Character suffers 1d4 points of Charisma damage per day, lapsing into a coma if the score drops to 0.\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\pard 
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {94\endash 100\cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\faauto\rin0\lin0 {\i Sensory Overload: }{Character is stunned for 1 round if wounded; a successful Fortitude save (DC 15) negates.\cell }\pard 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 {\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 
\cellx825\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth1 \cellx10056\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {REPLACEMENTS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The most basic replacement limbs and organs don\rquote 
t bestow any special benefits, but they suffer the usual drawbacks (see Benefits and Drawbacks, above). Some replacements of higher PL are built to counter certain drawbacks, as noted. They don\rquote t add measurably to the recipient\rquote s weight.

\par Each replacement description includes the following information:
\par }{\b Benefit: }{What the cybernetic replacement allows its recipient to do.
\par }{\b Type: }{Replacements can be external or internal. External replacements are subject to sunder attacks; internal replacements are not.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{The hardness and hit points of the replacement. Internal replacements don\rquote t have hardness.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{The purchase DC of the replacement (or the compone
nts to build it), at its specified Progress Level. Cybernetic attachments are cheaper to buy at higher Progress Levels; for each raised step in Progress Level, reduce the purchase DC by 2. 
\par }{\b Restriction: }{The level of license required to purchase the replacement legally, and an appropriate black market purchase DC modifier.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Artificial Organ (PL 5)
\par }{An artificial organ fully replaces a defective or destroyed biological organ, such as a heart, lung, eye, or ear.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The artificial organ duplicates the function of its biological counterpart. It provides no special game benefits.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{19.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Prosthetic Arm (PL 5)
\par }{A prosthetic arm fully replaces a lost or destroyed biological arm. The prosthetic arm may begin at the shoulder, elbow, or wrist.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The prosthetic arm duplicates the function of its biological counterpart. It provides no special game benefits.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{3/5.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{17.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Prosthetic Leg (PL 5)
\par }{A prosthetic leg fully replaces a lost or destroyed biological leg. The prosthetic leg may begin at the thigh, knee, or ankle.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The prosthetic leg duplicates the function of its biological counterpart. It provides no special game benefits.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{3/7.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{17.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par 
\par }{\fs24 Artificial Organ Upgrade (PL 6)
\par }{This upgraded version of the PL 5 artificial organ not only replaces a defective or destroyed biological organ but is also more resilient than its technological predecessor. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The artificial organ upgrade duplicates the function of its biological counterpart and cannot be disabled if the recipient takes massive damage (see Massive Damage Effects).
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{21.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Prosthetic Arm Upgrade (PL 6)
\par }{This upgraded version of the PL 5 prosthetic arm not only replaces a lost or destroyed arm but is also more resilient than its technological predecessor.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The prosthetic arm upgrade duplicates the function of its biological counterpart but has a greater hardness and more hit points than the basic PL 5 prosthesis.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{5/10.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{19.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Prosthetic Leg Upgrade (PL 6)
\par }{This upgraded version of the PL 5 prosthetic leg not only replaces a lost or destroyed leg but is also more resilient than its technological predecessor.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The prosthetic leg upgrade duplicates the function of its biological counterpart but has a greater hardness and more hit points than the basic PL 5 prosthesis.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{5/15.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{19.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Advanced Artificial Organ (PL 7)
\par }{This advanced version of the PL 5 artificial organ and PL 6 upgrade not only replaces a defective or destroyed biological organ but is also more resilient and less impairing than its technological predecessors.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The advanced artificial organ duplicates the function of its biological counterpart and
 cannot be disabled if the recipient takes massive damage (see Massive Damage Effects). In addition, the advanced organ does not count toward the total number of cybernetic attachments the recipient can have before taking negative levels (see Number of At
tachments).
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{24.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Advanced Prosthetic Arm (PL 7)
\par }{This upgraded version of the PL 5 prosthetic arm and PL 6 upgrade not only replaces a lost or destroyed arm but is also more resilient and less impairing than its technological predecessors.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The advanced prosthesis duplicates the function of its biological counterpart. In addition, this advanced prosthesis does not count toward the total number of cybernetic attachments the 
recipient can have before taking negative levels (see Number of Attachments).
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{5/10.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{22.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Advanced Prosthetic Leg (PL 7)
\par }{This upgraded version of the PL 5 prosthetic leg and PL 6 upgrade not only replaces a lost or destroyed leg but is also more resilient and less impairing than its technological predecessors.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The advanced prosthesis duplicates the function of its biological counterpart. In addition, this advanced prosthesis d
oes not count toward the total number of cybernetic attachments the recipient can have before taking negative levels (see Number of Attachments).
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{5/15.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{22.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {ENHANCEMENTS
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Cybernetic e
nhancements are available starting at Progress Level 6. Unlike standard replacements, they bestow new abilities upon their recipients. Unless otherwise noted, enhancements don\rquote t add measurably to a recipient\rquote s weight.
\par Each enhancement description includes the following information:
\par }{\b Benefit: }{What the cybernetic enhancement allows its recipient to do.
\par }{\b Type: }{Enhancements can be external or internal. External enhancements are subject to sunder attacks; internal enhancements are not.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{The hardness and hit points of the enhancement. Internal enhancements don\rquote t have hardness.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{The purchase DC of the enhancement (or the components to build it), at its specified Progress Level. Cybernetic attachments are cheaper to buy at higher P
rogress Levels; for each raised step in Progress Level, reduce the purchase DC by 2. 
\par }{\b Restriction: }{The level of license required to purchase the enhancement legally, and an appropriate black market purchase DC modifier.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Anti-Shock Implant (PL 6)
\par }{This tiny implant, embedded near the recipient\rquote s brain stem, protects itself and other cybernetic hardware against electricity damage. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The implant negates the recipient\rquote s special vulnerability to electricity (see Benefits and Drawbacks, above).
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /1.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{15.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par External Weapon Mount (PL 6)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s prosthetic arm ends in a weapon instead of a hand.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient has a melee or ranged weapon attached to a prosthetic arm. Atte
mpts to disarm the recipient of the attached weapon automatically fail, though the weapon can still be attacked (like any other weapon) in an attempt to destroy it.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{10/5 (mount only).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{Melee weapon mount 15, ranged weapon mount 17 (the purchase DC does not include the prosthetic arm or weapon).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Identity Chip (PL 6)
\par }{Identity chips provide identification without requiring visual recognition\emdash  high-tech ID cards that function even when the wearer is unrecognizable.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{An identity chip functions as both legal ID and a credit card. The recipient can make Wealth checks even when separated from his funds.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /1.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{5.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Injector Unit (PL 6)
\par }{This unit, attached the recipient\rquote s forearm or thigh, incorporates three medical hypo-syringes. Upon command, the unit can inject any or all of the medicinal substances into the recipient\rquote s bloodstream.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The injector u
nit has three built-in hypos, and each hypo holds a single dose of one of the following medicinal chemicals: antitox (PL 6), boost (PL 6), neutrad (PL 6), sporekill (PL 6), or biocort (PL 7). As a free action during his turn, the recipient can contract hi
s muscles to inject himself with any or all of these hypos, gaining the benefits immediately. A drained hypo can be removed and replaced as a full-round action.
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{2/5.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{15 (medical hypos must be purchased separately).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Licensed (+1).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Nightvision Optics (PL 6)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s eyes are replaced with ocular implants that enable the character to see better in the dark. All of the recipient\rquote s eyes must be replaced to gain any benefit.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2 (per eye).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{19.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Skill Implant (PL 6)
\par }{This small brain implant enables its recipient to perform a specific skill more adroitly.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains a +2 competence bonus on checks made with one class skill of his choice. Different skills require different implants, and a skill implant cannot be modified to grant a bonus to another skill.
\par A recipient may have multiple skill implants, but each is considered a separate cybernetic attachment.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /1.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{20.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Stabilizer (PL 6)
\par }{A stabilizer releases chemical coagulants into a dying recipient\rquote s bloodstream to prevent excess blood loss, effectively stabilizing him. A stabilizer is usually installed near the recipient\rquote s heart. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{If reduced to negative hit points, the recipient automatically stabilizes.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /3.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{22.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Subcutaneous Body Armor (PL 6)
\par }{Subcutaneous body armor consists of small plates of flexible armor implanted under the recipient\rquote s skin.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The character gains a natural armor bonus to Defense. The bonus depends on the density of the armor: Light +2, Medium +5, Heavy +8.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /varies. The armor has one-quarter the maximum hit points of the recipient.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{Light 15, Medium 20, or Heavy 25.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Subcutaneous Cell Phone (PL 6)
\par }{The recipient has a small transceiver installed underneath the skin of her throat. The transceiver is connected to a tiny speaker located in the recipient\rquote s ear.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient may carry on conversations using the subcutaneous cell phone without raising her voice above a whisper; Listen checks made to hear the recipient suffer a \endash 4 penalty. The tiny speaker implanted in the recipient\rquote 
s ear enables her to hear the other side of the conversation, but others cannot.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{16.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Telescopic Optics (PL 6)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s eyes are replaced with ocular implants that simulate the effects of binoculars, enabling the recipient to perceive distant objects more easily. All of the recipient\rquote s eyes must be replaced to gain any benefit.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{Telescopic optics reduce the range penalty for Spot checks to \endash 1 for every 30 feet of distance (instead of \endash 1 for every 10 feet).
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2 (per eye).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{15.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Voice Stress Analyzer (PL 6)
\par }{Sensors attached to the recipient\rquote s optic nerves and inner ear analyze minute physical indicators from living beings (including increased pulse galvanic skin response) and enable the recipient to better determine the emotional states of others.

\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains a +4 equipment bonus on all Sense Motive checks.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{17.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Anti-Flare Implants (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s corneas are replaced with artificial ones equipped with flare suppressors that react instantly to bright flashes of light. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{Blinding effects produced by bright lights have no harmful or debilitating effect on the recipient.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /1 (per eye).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{14.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Anti-Stun Implant (PL 7)
\par }{This implant, embedded near the spine, shields the recipient\rquote s nervous system against stunning attacks.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient cannot be stunned.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{24.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Body Repair Weave (PL 7)
\par }{A delicate weave of subdermal biowires stimulates and repairs the body\rquote s damaged tissue.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient heals naturally at twice the normal rate.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{21.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Licensed (+1).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Data Archive (PL 7)
\par }{A data archive is a microcomputer implanted in the recipient\rquote s skull. It contains skill-related information stored on a series of biological data chips, or biochips.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient treats all skills as class skills. Furthermore, the recipient gains access to an information database that grants a +4 equipment bonus on all Knowledge checks.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{27.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Feat Implant (PL 7)
\par }{Thanks to a chip implanted in the recipient\rquote s brain or a series of implants wired to the recipient\rquote s nervous system, the recipient gains special knowledge or some extraordinary ability.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The feat implant gives the recipient a feat. The recipient must meet all of the feat\rquote 
s prerequisites to gain its benefits. If the feat implant is destroyed, the granted feat is lost as well. A feat implant cannot duplicate a metamagic or psionic feat.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /5.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{25.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Fortified Skeleton (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s skeleton is fortified with high-impact polymers, increasing his ability to shrug off physical damage.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains damage reduction 4/\endash .
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /varies. The skeletal reinforcement has one-quarter the maximum hit points of the recipient.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{32.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Initiative Implant (PL 7)
\par }{The initiative implant consists of a series of wires threaded around the recipient\rquote s spinal cord and attached to the recipient\rquote s nervous system. The implant stimulates faster response times.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains a +2 equipment bonus on initiative checks.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /10.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{20.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Internal Weapon Mount (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient has a subcutaneous weapon embedded in her body, usually in a prosthetic forearm or hand. The weapon extends from the prosthesis and is visible when in use.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient has a melee or ranged weapon hidden under her skin. Attempts to disarm the recipient of the attached weapon automatically fail, and the weapon itself cannot be attacked unless it is extended. Extending or re
tracting the weapon is a free action.
\par Spotting a subcutaneous weapon requires a successful Spot check opposed by the recipient\rquote s Sleight of Hand check. The weapon\rquote s size applies a modifier to the Sleight of Hand check.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{10/5 (mount only).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{Melee weapon mount 17, ranged weapon mount 19 (the purchase DC does not include the prosthesis or weapon).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Laser Optics (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s eyes are replaced with ocular implants capable of firing thin laser beams.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{Using laser optics is an attack action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. A \'93laser eye\'94 deals 2d6 points of fire damage, threatens a critical hit on a natural 20, and has a range increment of 20 feet. Each ad
ditional eye adds +2 to the damage roll (thus, a pair of laser eyes would deal 2d6+2 points of fire damage).
\par A creature equipped with multiple laser eyes must fire them simultaneously at the same target.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2 (per eye).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{Single 25, pair 28.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Luminous Skin (PL 7)
\par }{Special skin grafts create luminous displays on the recipient\rquote s flesh. Most recipients use it purely for decoration, but the same technology can provide a built-in chronometer.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient can control the brightness of the luminescence as a free action, negating it entirely if desired. As its most intense, luminous skin can illuminate squares occupied by or adjacent to the recipient. The chronometer serves the
 same function as a wristwatch, including date, time, and alarm functions.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /\endash  (luminous skin ceases to function when the recipient is killed).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{4 (6 for chronometer version).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Microcomputer (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient has a miniature computer attached to his nervous system, usually at the base of the skull.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient may attempt Computer Use checks as a move action, rather than a full-round action. The microcomputer reduces by h
alf the time required to operate remotes. A data port in the back of the unit allows for the insertion of a standard interface cable (purchase DC 5), allowing the recipient to transfer data without the benefit of a modem. 
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{35 (36 with integrated cellular modem).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Restricted (+2).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Mindscreen Implant (PL 7)
\par }{A small implant in the recipient\rquote s brain protects him against mental attacks. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains a +2 equipment bonus on saving throws against mind-affecting attacks.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{28.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Prosthetic Enhancer (PL 7)
\par }{This implant attaches to a prosthetic arm or leg, making it stronger.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{If attached to a prosthetic leg, the prosthetic enhancer increases the recipient\rquote s base speed by +5 feet. In addition, any unarmed attack made with an enhanced prosthetic leg deals an additional 1 point of damage.
\par If attached to a prosthetic arm, the prosthetic enhancer grants a +2 bonus on Strength- and Dexterity-based ability checks and skill checks. In addition, any unarmed attack made with an enhanced prosthetic arm deals an additional 1 point of damage.
\par A prosthetic enhancer does not count toward the total number of cybernetic attachments the recipient can have before taking negative levels (see Number of Attachments).
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{22.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Rage Implant (PL 7)}{
\par This brain implant dramatically increases the amount of adrenaline and testosterone the recipient\rquote s body produces, temporarily boosting his strength and durability.
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient can activate the implant as a free action once per day. Upon doing so, he temporarily gains a +4 bonus to Strength, a +4 bonus to Constitution, and a +2 morale bonus on Will saves, but he takes a \endash 2 penalty to Defense.

\par The increase in Constitution increases the recipient\rquote s hit points by 2 per level, but these hit points go away at the end of the rage when his Const
itution score drops back to normal. While raging, the recipient cannot use any Charisma-, Dexterity-, or Intelligence-based skills (except for Balance, Drive, Escape Artist, Intimidate, Pilot, or Ride), the Concentration skill, any abilities that require 
patience and concentration (including spellcasting and manifesting psionic powers), or any items that must be activated to function. 
\par The rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 3 + the recipient\rquote s (newly acquired) Constitution modifier. The recipient may prematurely end his rage.
\par At the end of the rage, the recipient loses the rage modifiers and restrictions and becomes fatigued for the remaining duration of the current encounter.
\par The increased Constitution triggered by the rage implant in now way obviates the negative levels bestowed for having too many cybernetic attachments.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /3.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{24.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Restricted (+2).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Skill Plexus (PL 7)
\par }{This unit, implanted in the recipient\rquote s brain, allows multiple skill implants to function as a single cybernetic attachment (see Skill Implant, above).
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient may have up to four skill implants attached to the skill plexus, and together they are treated as a single cybernetic attachment. However, if the 
skill plexus is destroyed, all of the attached skill implants are destroyed as well.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{25 (does not include skill implants).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{None.
\par }{\fs24 
\par Targeting Optics (PL 7)
\par }{The recipient\rquote s eyes are replaced with ocular implants that use a projected targeting reticle to improve the recipient\rquote s aim. All of the recipient\rquote s eyes must be replaced to gain any benefit. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{Targeting optics grant a +1 bonus on all attack rolls made with ranged weapons.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2 (per eye).
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{17.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Feat Plexus (PL 8)
\par }{This unit, implanted in the recipient\rquote s brain, allows multiple feat implants to function as a single cybernetic attachment (see Feat Implant, above).
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient may have up to four feat implants attached to the feat plexus, and together they are treated as a single cybernetic attachment. However, if the feat plexus is destroyed, all of the attached feat implants are destroyed as
 well.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /4.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{25 (does not include feat implants).
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Invisiware (PL 8)
\par }{This technology enables its recipient to turn invisible for a short time. Invisiware uses crystalline refractors grafted to the skin and powered by rechargeable solar battery units protruding from various points on the recipient\rquote 
s body (usually the spine).
\par }{\b Benefit: }{By using invisiware to bend light around its body, a creature can turn invisible. An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if immobile, or a +20 bonus if moving. Pinpointing the location of an invisible creature that isn
\rquote t attempting to hide requires a Spot check (DC 40 if the creature is immobile or DC 20 if it is moving).
\par While invisible, the creature gains 50% concealment against attacks from other creatures that correctly pinpoint its fighting space.
\par Activating or deactivating invisiware is a free action. However, the technology consumes a great deal of the battery power; after 10 r
ounds (1 minute) of use, the solar batteries must be recharged for 1 hour, during which time the invisiware cannot be activated. 
\par }{\b Type: }{External.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{4/20.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{35.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }{\fs24 
\par Psi Implant (PL 8)
\par }{This brain implant stimulates neuron activity in underdeveloped regions of the recipient\rquote s brain, unlocking latent psionic abilities. 
\par }{\b Benefit: }{The recipient gains the Wild Talent feat.
\par }{\b Type: }{Internal.
\par }{\b Hardness/Hit Points: }{\endash /2.
\par }{\b Base Purchase DC: }{31.
\par }{\b Restriction: }{Military (+3).
\par }}