{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f114\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f115\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f117\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f119\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f120\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f121\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f130\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f131\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f133\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f134\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f135\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f136\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f137\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f340\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f338\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f339\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f341\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f342\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f343\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f344\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f345\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid2498198\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid-1168074350\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid34390764\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-2070486668\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1533095052\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid-1390643926\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1195826828\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 
\fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1014513322\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 
\chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2087353528\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20
\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid940586428
\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fs20\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid743529791}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid743529791\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info
{\title Potions}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy30\hr10\min51}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min13}{\version11}{\edmins11}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1280}{\nofchars7296}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}
{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\par 
\par MAGIC ITEMS (POTIONS)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\ul 
\par POTIONS}{
\par A potion is a magic liquid that produces its effect when imbibed. Potions are also sometimes called elixirs. Magic oils are similar to potions, except that oils are applied externally rather than imbibed. A potion, oil, or elixir can be used only once.

\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Physical Description}{
\par A typical potion or oil consists of 1 ounce of liquid held in a ceramic or glass vial fitted with a tight stopper. The stoppered co
ntainer is usually no more than 1 inch wide and 2 inches high. The vial has an AC of 13, 1 hit point, a hardness of 1, and a break DC of 12. Vials hold 1 ounce of liquid.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Activation}{
\par Drinking a potion or applying an oil requires no special skill. The user merely removes the stopper and swallows the potion or smears on the oil. The following rules govern potion and oil use:
\par Drinking a potion or applying an oil is a standard action. The potion or oil takes effect immediately. 
\par Using a potion or oil provokes a
ttacks of opportunity. A successful attack (including grappling attacks) against the character forces a Concentration check (as with casting a spell). If the character fails this check, he or she cannot drink the potion. An attacker may direct the attack 
of opportunity against the potion or oil container rather than against the character. A successful attack on the potion can destroy the container. 
\par A creature must be able to swallow a potion or smear on an oil. Because of this, incorporeal creatures cannot use potions or oils. 
\par Any corporeal creature can imbibe a potion. The potion must be swallowed. Any corporeal creature can use an oil. 
\par A character can carefully administer a potion to an unconscious creature as a full-round action, trickling the liquid down the creature\rquote s throat. Likewise, it takes a full-round action to apply an oil to an unconscious creature. 
\par 
\par Table: Potions
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Market
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {Minor\tab Medium Major Potion\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Price
\par -----\tab ------\tab -----\tab ------\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ------
\par 01-05\tab -\tab -\tab Jump\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 50 gp
\par 06-10\tab -\tab -\tab Spider climb\tab \tab \tab \tab 50 gp
\par 11-19\tab -\tab -\tab Cure light wounds\tab \tab \tab 50 gp
\par 20\tab 01\tab -\tab Love\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 21-24\tab 02\tab -\tab Vision\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 25-28\tab 03\tab -\tab Swimming\tab \tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 29-32\tab 04\tab -\tab Hiding\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 33-36\tab 05\tab -\tab Sneaking\tab \tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 37\tab 06\tab -\tab Oil of timelessness\tab \tab \tab 150 gp
\par 38-42\tab 07\tab -\tab Reduce (at 5th level)\tab \tab \tab 250 gp
\par 43-47\tab 08\tab -\tab Enlarge (at 5th level)\tab \tab \tab 250 gp
\par 48-50\tab 09\tab -\tab Speak with animals\tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 51-53\tab 10\tab 01\tab Protection from Arrows\tab \tab 300 gp
\par 54-56\tab 11-12\tab 02\tab Charisma\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 57-59\tab 13-14\tab 03\tab Intelligence\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 60-62\tab 15-16\tab 04\tab Wisdom\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 63-65\tab 17-18\tab 05\tab Alter self\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 66-68\tab 19-21\tab 06-07\tab Blur\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 69-71\tab 22-24\tab 08\tab Darkvision\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 72-74\tab 25-26\tab 09\tab Ghoul touch\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 75-77\tab 27-29\tab 10\tab Delay poison\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 78-80\tab 30-32\tab 11-13\tab Endurance\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 81-83\tab 33-40\tab 14-16\tab Cure moderate wounds\tab \tab 300 gp
\par 84-86\tab 41-45\tab 17-19\tab Remove Paralysis\tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 87-89\tab 46-50\tab 20-22\tab Levitate\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 90-91\tab 51-55\tab 23-25\tab Aid\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 92-93\tab 56-60\tab 26-30\tab Invisibility\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 94\tab 61-65\tab 31-35\tab See invisibility\tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 95\tab 66-70\tab 36-40\tab Cat\rquote s grace\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 96\tab 71-75\tab 41-45\tab Bull\rquote s strength\tab \tab \tab \tab 300 gp
\par 97\tab 76-77\tab 46\tab Truth\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 500 gp
\par 98\tab 78-79\tab 47\tab Glibness\tab \tab \tab \tab 500 gp
\par 99\tab 80-84\tab 48-49\tab Nondetection\tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par 100\tab 85-87\tab 50-51\tab Tongues\tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 88-91\tab 52-53\tab Water breathing\tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 92\tab 54-55\tab Negative energy protection\tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 93\tab 56-57\tab Displacement\tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 94\tab 58-59\tab Remove disease\tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 95-96\tab 60-69\tab Neutralize poison\tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 97\tab 70-73\tab Cure serious wounds\tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab 98\tab 74-75\tab Fly\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 76-77\tab Protection from elements (cold)\tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 78-79\tab Protection from elements (electricity) 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 80-83\tab Protection from elements (fire)\tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 84-85\tab Protection from elements (acid)\tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 86-87\tab Protection from elements (sonic)\tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 88-90\tab Haste\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 91-93\tab Gaseous form\tab \tab \tab \tab 750 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 94-95\tab Oil of slipperiness\tab \tab \tab 900 gp
\par -\tab 99-100\tab 96-98\tab Heroism\tab \tab \tab \tab 900 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 99-100\tab Fire breath\tab \tab \tab \tab 900 gp
\par }{\ul 
\par POTION DESCRIPTIONS}{
\par The caster level for a standard potion is the minimum caster level needed to cast the spell (unless otherwise specified). Nonstandard potions are described below.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Charisma}{
\par This potion adds a 1d4+1 enhancement bonus to the user\rquote s Charisma score for 3 hours.
\par Caster Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 4th+; Market Price: 300 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Fire Breath}{
\par This strange elixir bestows upon the drinker the a
bility to spit gouts of flame. The user can breathe fire up to three times, each time dealing 3d6 points of fire damage to a single target up to 25 feet away. The victim can attempt a Reflex save (DC 12) for half damage. Unused blasts dissipate 1 hour aft
er the potion is consumed. 
\par Caster Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 8th+; Market Price: 900 gp.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Glibness}{
\par This potion lasts 1 hour and provides the user with a +30 to Bluff checks. In addition, magic that normally detects lies does not register the speaker\rquote s lies as such.
\par Caster Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 8th+; Market Price: 500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Heroism}{
\par This potion grants the drinker a +2 competence bonus to attacks, saves, and skill checks for 1 hour.
\par Caster Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 8th+; Market Price: 900 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Hiding}{
\par A character drinking this potion gains a +10 competence bonus to Hide checks for 1 hour.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 6th+; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Intelligence}{
\par This potion grants an ehancement bonus of 1d4+1 to the drinker\rquote s Intelligence score for 3 hours.
\par Caster Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 4th+; Market Price: 300 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Love}{
\par This potion causes the character drinking it to become charmed with the first creature seen after consuming the draft (as charm person-the drinker must be a huma
noid of Medium-size or smaller, Will save, DC 14). The drinker actually becomes enamored if the creature is of similar race or kind. The charm effects wear off in 1d3 hours, but the enamoring effect is permanent.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, charm person; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Oil of Slipperiness}{
\par This oil adds a +30 bonus to all Escape Artist checks. In addition, such obstructions as webs (magical or otherwise) do not affect an anointed individual. Magic ropes and the like do not avail ag
ainst this oil. If the oil is poured on a floor or on steps, the spill should be treated as a long-lasting grease spell. The oil requires 8 hours to wear off normally, or it can be wiped off with an alcohol solution.
\par Oil of slipperiness is needed to coat the inside of a container that is meant to hold sovereign glue.
\par Caster Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, grease, spellcaster level 6th+; Market Price: 900 gp.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Oil of Timelessness}{
\par When applied to any matter that was once alive, this oil allows that su
bstance to resist the passage of time. Each year of actual time affects the substance as if only a day had passed. The coated object has a +1 resistance bonus on all saving throws. The oil never wears off, although it can be magically removed. One flask c
ontains enough oil to coat eight Medium-size objects or an equivalent area.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisite: Brew Potion; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Sneaking}{
\par This potion grants the drinker a +10 circumstance bonus to Move Silently checks for 1 hour.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 6th+; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Swimming}{
\par This potion bestows a +10 circumstance bonus to Swim checks for 1 hour.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 6th+; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Truth}{
\par This potion forces the individual drinking it to say nothing but the truth for 10 minutes (Will negates DC 12). Further, the drinker is compelled to answer any questions put to him or her in that time, but with each question he or she is fr
ee to make a separate Will save (DC 12). If one of these secondary saves is successful, the drinker doesn\rquote t break free of the truth-compelling enchantment but also doesn\rquote 
t have to answer that particular question. No more than one question can be asked each round. This is a mind-affecting compulsion enchantment.
\par Caster Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 8th+; Market Price: 500 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Vision}{
\par Drinking this potion a +10 to Search checks for 1 hour.
\par Caster Level: 2nd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 6th+; Market Price: 150 gp.
\par 
\par }{\cs19\i Wisdom}{
\par This potion adds a 1d4+1 enhancement bonus to the drinker\rquote s Wisdom score for 3 hours.
\par Caster Level: 3rd; Prerequisites: Brew Potion, spellcaster level 4th+; Market Price: 300 gp.
\par }}