{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f114\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f115\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f117\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f119\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f120\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f121\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f340\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f338\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f339\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f341\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}
{\f342\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f343\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f344\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f345\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}}{\info{\title Armor}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}
{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy26\hr16\min18}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min14}{\version25}{\edmins29}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords3265}{\nofchars18611}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 
This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.}{
\par 
\par MAGIC ITEMS (ARMOR)}{\dbch\af28 
\par }{
\par }{\ul ARMOR}{
\par Magic armor bonuses are referred to as enhancement bonuses, never rise above +5, and stack
 with regular armor bonuses (and with shield and magic shield enhancement bonuses).  Further, all magic armor is also masterwork armor, so armor check penalties are reduced by 1.
\par 
\par In addition to an enhancement bonus, armor may have special abilities. Speci
al abilities count as additional bonuses for determining the market value of an item, but do not improve AC. A suit of armor cannot have an effective bonus (enhancement plus special ability bonus equivalents) higher than +10. A suit of armor with a specia
l ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par 
\par Armor is always created so that even if the type of armor comes with boots or gauntlets, these pieces can be switched for other magic boots or gauntlets. Magic armor, like almost all magic items, resizes itself to fit the wearer.
\par 
\par Caster Level for Armor and Shields: The caster level of a magic shield or magic armor with a special ability is given in the item description. For an item with only an enhancement bonus, the caster level is three times the enhan
cement bonus. If an item has both an enhancement bonus and a special ability, the higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.
\par 
\par Shields: Shield enhancement bonuses stack with armor enhancement bonuses. Shield enhancement bonuses do not act as a
ttack or damage bonuses when the shield is used in a bash. The bashing shield enchantment, however, does grant a +1 bonus to attacks and damage (see the item description). A shield could be built with offensive powers (like a magic weapon), but the magic 
offensive bonus cost would need to be added into the defensive bonus cost of the shield.
\par 
\par As with armor, special abilities built into the shield add to the market value in the form of additions to the bonus of the shield, although they do not improve AC. A 
shield cannot have an effective bonus (enhancement plus special ability bonus equivalents) higher than +10. A shield with a special ability must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus.
\par 
\par Shields\rquote  Hardness and Hit Points: An attacker cannot damage a magic shield with an enhancement bonus unless the attacker\rquote 
s own weapon has at least as high an enhancement bonus as the shield struck. Each +1 of enhancement bonus also adds 1 to the shield\rquote s hardness and hit points. 
\par 
\par Activation: If armor or a shield has a special ability that the user needs to activate, then the user usually needs to utter the command word (a standard action).
\par 
\par Table: Armor and Shields
\par Minor\tab Medium\tab Major\tab Item\tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par -----\tab ------\tab -----\tab ----\tab \tab \tab ------------
\par 01-60\tab 01-05\tab -\tab +1 shield\tab \tab +1,000 gp
\par 61-80\tab 06-10\tab -\tab +1 armor\tab \tab +1,000 gp
\par 81-85\tab 11-20\tab -\tab +2 shield\tab \tab +4,000 gp
\par 86-87\tab 21-30\tab -\tab +2 armor\tab \tab +4,000 gp
\par -\tab 31-40\tab 01-08\tab +3 shield\tab \tab +9,000 gp
\par -\tab 41-50\tab 09-16\tab +3 armor\tab \tab +9,000 gp
\par -\tab 51-55\tab 17-27\tab +4 shield\tab \tab +16,000 gp
\par -\tab 56-57\tab 28-38\tab +4 armor\tab \tab +16,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 39-49\tab +5 shield\tab \tab +25,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab 50-57\tab +5 armor\tab \tab +25,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab -\tab +6 armor/shield*\tab +36,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab -\tab +7 armor/shield*\tab +49,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab -\tab +8 armor/shield*\tab +64,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab -\tab +9 armor/shield*\tab +81,000 gp
\par -\tab -\tab -\tab +10 armor/shield*\tab +100,000 gp
\par -\tab 58-60\tab 58-60\tab Specific armor**\tab -
\par -\tab 61-63\tab 61-63\tab Specific shield\'86\tab -
\par 88-100\tab 64-100\tab 64-100\tab Special ability and roll again\'87\tab 
\par *Armor and shields can\rquote t actually have bonuses this high. Use these lines to determine price when special abilities are added in.
\par **Roll on Table: Specific Armors.
\par \'86Roll on Table: Specific Shields.
\par \'87Roll on Table: Armor Special Abilities or Table: Shield Special Abilities.
\par 
\par Table: Random Armor Type
\par d%\tab Armor\tab \tab Armor Cost*
\par --\tab -----\tab \tab -----------
\par 01\tab Padded\tab \tab +155 gp
\par 02\tab Leather\tab \tab +160 gp
\par 03-12\tab Hide\tab \tab +165 gp
\par 13-27\tab Studded leather\tab +175 gp
\par 28-42\tab Chain shirt\tab +250 gp
\par 43\tab Scale mail\tab +200 gp
\par 44\tab Chainmail\tab +300 gp
\par 45-57\tab Breastplate\tab +350 gp
\par 58\tab Splint mail\tab +350 gp
\par 59\tab Banded mail\tab +400 gp
\par 60\tab Half-plate\tab +750 gp
\par 61-100\tab Full plate\tab +1,650 gp
\par All magic armor is masterwork armor (with an armor check penalty 1 lower than normal).
\par *Add to enhancement bonus on Table: Armor and Shields to determine total market price.
\par 
\par Table: Random Shield Type
\par d%\tab Shield\tab \tab \tab Shield Cost*
\par --\tab ------\tab \tab \tab ------------
\par 01-10\tab Buckler\tab \tab \tab +165 gp
\par 11-15\tab Shield, small, wooden\tab +153 gp
\par 16-20\tab Shield, small, steel\tab +159 gp
\par 21-30\tab Shield, large, wooden\tab +157 gp
\par 31-95\tab Shield, large, steel\tab +170 gp
\par 96-100\tab Shield, tower\tab \tab +180 gp
\par All magic shields are masterwork shields (with an armor check penalty 1 lower than normal).
\par *Add to enhancement bonus on Table: Armor and Shields to determine total market price.
\par 
\par Table: Armor Special Abilities
\par Minor\tab Medium Major Special Ability\tab \tab Modifier*
\par ----\tab ------\tab -----\tab ---------------\tab \tab \tab ---------
\par 01-05\tab 01-02\tab 01-02\tab Fortification, light \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 06-30\tab 03-07\tab 03-08\tab Glamered \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 31-52\tab 08-19\tab 09\tab Slick \tab \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 53-74\tab 20-30\tab 10-11\tab Shadow \tab \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 75-96\tab 31-49\tab 12-14\tab Silent moves \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par -\tab 50\tab 15-16\tab Spell resistance (13) \tab \tab +2 bonus
\par -\tab 51-60\tab 17-21\tab Ghost touch\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 22-23\tab Invulnerability\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par 97-98\tab 61-65\tab 24-27\tab Fortification, moderate\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 66\tab 28-29\tab Spell resistance (15)\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 67-71\tab 30-31\tab Acid resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 72-76\tab 32-41\tab Cold resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 77-81\tab 42-51\tab Fire resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 82-86\tab 52-61\tab Lightning resistance\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 87-91\tab 62-64\tab Sonic resistance\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 92-94\tab 65-67\tab Spell resistance (17)\tab \tab +4 bonus
\par -\tab 95\tab 68-69\tab Etherealness\tab \tab \tab +5 bonus
\par -\tab 96-98\tab 70-72\tab Fortification, heavy\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 73-74\tab Spell resistance (19)\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par 99-100\tab 99-100\tab 75-100\tab Roll twice again**\tab \tab -
\par *Add to enhancement bonus on Table: Armor and Shields to determine total market price.
\par **If a special ability is rolled twice, only one counts. If two versions of the same special ability are rolled, use the better.
\par 
\par Table: Shield Special Abilities
\par Minor\tab Medium\tab Major\tab Special Ability\tab \tab \tab Modifier*
\par -----\tab ------\tab -----\tab ---------------\tab \tab \tab ---------
\par 01-30\tab -\tab -\tab Bashing\tab \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 31-50\tab -\tab -\tab Blinding\tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 51-60\tab -\tab -\tab Fortification, light\tab \tab +1 bonus
\par 61-99\tab 01-10\tab -\tab Arrow deflection\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par -\tab 11-16\tab 01-15\tab Animated\tab \tab \tab +2 bonus
\par -\tab 17-20\tab 16-20\tab Spell resistance (13)\tab \tab +2 bonus
\par -\tab 21-25\tab 21-25\tab Ghost touch\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 26-30\tab 26-35\tab Fortification, moderate\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 31-40\tab 36-38\tab Acid resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 41-50\tab 39-41\tab Cold resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 51-60\tab 42-44\tab Fire resistance\tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 61-70\tab 45-47\tab Lightning resistance\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab 71-80\tab 48-50\tab Sonic resistance\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 51-55\tab Spell resistance (15)\tab \tab +3 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 56-60\tab Spell resistance (17)\tab \tab +4 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 61-65\tab Fortification, heavy\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par -\tab 81-90\tab 66-70\tab Reflecting\tab \tab \tab +5 bonus
\par -\tab -\tab 71-80\tab Spell resistance (19)\tab \tab +5 bonus
\par 100\tab 91-100\tab 81-100\tab Roll twice again**\tab \tab -
\par *Add to enhancement bonus on Table: Armor and Shields to determine total market price.
\par **If a special ability is rolled twice, only one counts. If two versions of the same special ability are rolled, use the better.
\par 
\par }{\ul ARMOR & SHIELD SPECIAL QUALITIES}{
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Acid Resistance}{
\par The armor or shield absorbs the first 10 points of acid damage per round that the wearer would normally take.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist elements; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Animated}{
\par Upon command, an animated shield floats within 2 feet of the wielder, protecting the character as if he or she were using it, but freeing up both the character\rquote s hands. Only one shield can protect a character at a time.
\par Caster Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, animate objects; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Arrow Deflection}{
\par This shield protects the wielder as if he or she had the Deflect Arrows feat.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, shield; Market Price: +2 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Bashing}{
\par No matter what the size of the attacker, a large bashing shield deals 1d8 points of damage and a small bashing shield deals 1d6 points of damage. The shield acts as a +1 weapon when used to bash. (Tower shields cannot be bashing shields.)
\par Caster Level: 8th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bull\rquote s strength; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Blinding}{
\par A shield with this enchantment flashes with a brilliant light up to twice per day upon command of the wielder. All within 20 feet except the wielder must make a Reflex saving throw (DC 14) or be blinded for 1d4 rounds.
\par Caster Level: 7th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, blindness/deafness, searing light; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Cold Resistance}{
\par The armor or shield absorbs the first 10 points of cold damage per round that the wearer would normally take.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist elements; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Etherealness}{
\par On command, this enchantment allows the wearer of the armor to become ethereal once per day. The character can remain ethereal for as long as desired, but once the character returns to normal, he or she cannot become ethereal again that day.
\par Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, ethereal jaunt; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Fire Resistance}{
\par The armor or shield absorbs the first 10 points of heat damage per round that the wearer would normally take.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist elements; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Fortification}{
\par When a critical hit or sneak attack is scored on the wearer, there is a chance that the critical hit or sneak attack is negated and damage is instead rolled normally:
\par Fortification Type\tab Chance for Normal Damage\tab Market Price
\par ------------------\tab ------------------------\tab ------------
\par Light\tab \tab \tab 25%\tab \tab \tab \tab +1 bonus
\par Moderate\tab \tab 75%\tab \tab \tab \tab +3 bonus
\par Heavy\tab \tab \tab 100%\tab \tab \tab \tab +5 bonus
\par Caster Level: 13th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, limited wish or miracle; Market Price: varies (see above).
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Ghost Touch}{
\par Both the enhancement bonus and the armor bonus of this armor or shield count against the attacks of incorporeal creatures. Further, it can be picked up, moved, and worn by incorporeal creatures at any time. Incorporeal creatures gain the armor or shield
\rquote s enhancement bonus against both corporeal and incorporeal attacks, and they can still pass freely through solid objects.
\par Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, etherealness; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Glamered}{
\par Upon command, this armor 
changes shape and form to assume the appearance of a normal set of clothing. The armor retains all its properties (including weight) when glamered. Only a true seeing spell or similar magic reveals the true nature of the armor when disguised.
\par Caster Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, alter self; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Invulnerability}{
\par This suit of armor grants the wearer damage reduction of 5/+1.
\par Caster Level: 18th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, stoneskin, wish or miracle; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Lightning Resistance}{
\par The armor or shield absorbs the first 10 points of electrical damage per round that the wearer would normally take.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist elements; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Reflection}{
\par Once per day as a free action, this shield can be called on to reflect a spell back at its caster exactly.
\par If the character and a spellcasting attacker are both warded by spell turning effects in operation, a resonating field is created. Roll randomly to determine the result:
\par d% \tab Effect
\par -- \tab ------
\par 01\endash 70 \tab Spell drains away without effect.
\par 71\endash 80 \tab Spell affects both of the characters equally at full effect.
\par 81\endash 97 \tab Both turning effects are rendered nonfunctional for 1d4 minutes.
\par 98\endash 100 \tab Both of the characters go through a rift into another plane.
\par Caster Level: 14th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, spell turning; Market Price: +5 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Shadow}{
\par This armor grants a +10 circumstance bonus to Hide checks. This bonus does not stack with the Hide bonus granted by a cloak of elvenkind or obscuring or blinding-based Hide check bonuses. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)

\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, invisibility; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Silent Moves}{
\par This armor adds a +10 circumstance bonus to its wearer\rquote s Move Silently checks. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, silence; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Slick}{
\par This armor adds a +10 circumstance bonus to its wearer\rquote s Escape Artist checks. (The armor\rquote s armor check penalty still applies normally.)
\par Caster Level: 4th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, grease; Market Price: +1 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Sonic Resistance}{
\par The armor or shield absorbs the first 10 points of sonic damage per round that the wearer would normally take.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, resist elements; Market Price: +3 bonus.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Spell Resistance}{
\par This enchantment grants the armor\rquote s wearer spell resistance while the armor is worn. The spell resistance can be SR 13, SR 15, SR 17, or SR 19, depending on the armor.
\par Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, spell resistance; Market Price: +2 bonus (SR 13), +3 bonus (SR 15), +4 bonus (SR 17), or +5 bonus (SR 19).
\par 
\par 
\par Table: Specific Armors
\par Medium\tab Major\tab Specific Armor\tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par ------\tab -----\tab --------------\tab \tab \tab ------------
\par 01-10\tab -\tab Mithral shirt\tab \tab \tab 1,100 gp
\par 11-25\tab -\tab Elven chain\tab \tab \tab 4,150 gp
\par 26-35\tab -\tab Rhino hide\tab \tab \tab 5,165 gp
\par 36-45\tab -\tab Adamantine breastplate\tab \tab 5,350 gp
\par 46-70\tab -\tab Dwarven plate\tab \tab \tab 10,500 gp
\par 71-80\tab 01-10\tab Plate armor of the deep\tab \tab 16,650 gp
\par 81-90\tab 11-40\tab Banded mail of luck\tab \tab 18,900 gp
\par 91-100\tab 41-60\tab Breastplate of command\tab \tab 21,600 gp
\par -\tab 61-80\tab Celestial armor\tab \tab \tab 25,300 gp
\par -\tab 81-100\tab Demon armor\tab \tab \tab 41,650 gp
\par }{\ul SPECIFIC ARMORS}{
\par The following specific suits of armor usually are preconstructed with exactly the qualities described here.
\par 
\par Adamantine Breastplate: This nonmagical breastplate is made of adamantine, giving it a natural +2 enhancement bonus.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisites: -; Market Price: 5,350 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Banded Mail of Luck}{
\par This is +3 banded mail. Once per week, the armor allows its wearer to require that an attack roll made against him or her be rerolled. The wearer must take whatever 
consequences come from the second roll. The decision to have a reroll must be made before damage is rolled.
\par Caster Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bless; Market Price: 18,900 gp; Cost to Create: 10,150 gp + 700 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Breastplate of Command}{
\par When worn, this +2 breastplate bestows a +2 circumstance bonus on Charisma checks, checks using skills for which Charisma is the key ability, and turning checks to its wearer. Friendly troops within 360 feet of the user become braver than normal. Th
e wearer cannot hide or conceal herself in any way and still have the effect function.
\par Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, mass charm; Market Price: 21,600 gp; Cost to Create: 10,975 gp + 850 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Celestial Armor}{
\par This +1 chainmai
l is so fine and light that it can be worn under normal clothing without revealing its presence. It has a maximum Dexterity bonus of +8, an armor check penalty of -2, and an arcane spell failure chance of 15%. It is considered light armor, and it allows t
he wearer to fly on command (as the spell) once per day.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, fly, creator must be good; Market Price: 25,300 gp; Cost to Create: 12,800 gp + 1,000 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Demon Armor}{
\par This +4 full plate allows the wearer to make claw attacks that deal 1d10 (x2 critical) points of damage, strike as +1 weapons, and afflict the target as if he or she had been struck by a contagion spell (Fortitude negates DC 14). The \'93claws\'94
 are built into the armor\rquote s vambraces and gauntlets.
\par The armor bestows one negative level on any nonevil creature wearing it. This negative level persists as long as the armor is worn and disappears when the armor is removed. The negative level never results in actual level loss, but it cannot be overcome
 in any way (including restoration spells) while the armor is worn. 
\par Caster Level: 13th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, contagion; Market Price: 41,650 gp; Cost to Create: 21,650 gp + 1,600 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Dwarven Plate}{
\par This full plate is made of mithral. This armor has an arcane spell failure chance of 25%, a maximum Dexterity bonus of +3, and an armor check penalty of -4. It is considered medium armor and weighs 25 pounds.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisites: -; Market Price: 10,500 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Elven Chain}{
\par This very light chainmail is made of very fine mithral links. Speed while wearing elven chain is 30 feet for Medium-size creatures, or 20 feet for Small. The armor has an arcane spell failure chance of 20%, a maximum Dexterity bonus of +4, and an armor ch
eck penalty of -2. It is considered light armor and weighs 20 pounds.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisites: -; Market Price: 4,150 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Mithral Shirt}{
\par This very light chain shirt is made of very fine mithral links. Speed while wearing a mithral shirt is 30 feet fo
r Medium-size creatures, or 20 feet for Small. The armor has an arcane spell failure chance of 10%, a maximum Dexterity bonus of +6, and no armor check penalty. It is still considered light armor. The shirt weighs 10 pounds.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisite: -; Market Price: 1,100 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Plate Armor of the Deep}{
\par The wearer of this +1 full plate armor takes no pressure damage from being deep underwater and is treated as unarmored for purposes of Swim checks. The wearer can also breathe underwater and can converse with any creature that breathes water.
\par Caster Level: 11th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, freedom of movement, water breathing, tongues; Market Price: 16,650 gp; Cost to Create: 9,150 gp + 600 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Rhino Hide}{
\par This +2 hide armor is made from rhinoceros hide. In addition to granting a +2 enhancement AC bonus, it has a -1 armor check penalty and doubles all damage dealt by a charge attack made by the wearer.
\par Caster Level: 9th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, haste; Market Price: 5,165 gp; Cost to Create: 2,665 gp + 200 XP.
\par 
\par Table: Specific Shields
\par Medium\tab Major\tab Specific Shield\tab \tab Market Price
\par ------\tab -----\tab ---------------\tab \tab ------------
\par 01-10\tab -\tab Darkwood shield\tab \tab 257 gp
\par 11-18\tab -\tab Mithral large shield\tab 1,020 gp
\par 19-25\tab -\tab Adamantine shield\tab 2,170 gp
\par 26-45\tab 01-20\tab Spined shield\tab \tab 2,670 gp
\par 46-65\tab 21-40\tab Caster\rquote s shield\tab \tab 3,153 gp
\par 66-90\tab 41-60\tab Lion\rquote s shield\tab \tab 9,170 gp
\par 91-100\tab 61-80\tab Winged shield\tab \tab 15,159 gp
\par -\tab 81-100\tab Absorbing shield\tab 50,170 gp
\par }{\ul 
\par SPECIFIC SHIELDS}{
\par The following specific shields usually are preconstructed with exactly the qualities described here.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Absorbing Shield}{
\par Every other day this +1 large steel shield can be commanded to absorb a single Large or smaller object or creature that touches its front
, annihilating the thing that touches it.  Only the direct intervention of a deity can restore an annihilated character.  A successful touch attack in combat is required to absorb a target. 
\par Caster Level: 17th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, disintegrate; Market Price: 50,170 gp; Cost to Create: 25,170 gp + 2,000 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Adamantine Shield}{
\par This large nonmagical shield is made from adamantine, giving it a natural +1 enhancement bonus.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisites: -; Market Price: 2,170 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Caster\rquote s Shield}{
\par This +1 small wooden shield has a small leather strip on the back on which a spellcaster can scribe a single spell as on a scroll. A spell so scribed has only half the normal materials cost. (Experience point and component costs remain the same.)
 The user can cast the spell scribed on the back of the shield with no chance of arcane spell failure due to the shield.
\par A random caster\rquote s shield has a 50% chance of having a single medium scroll spell on it. The spell is divine (01-80 on d%) or arcane (81-100).
\par Caster Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Scribe Scroll, creator must be at least 6th level; Market Price: 3,153 gp (plus the value of the scroll spell if one is currently scribed); Cost to Create: 1,653 gp + 120 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Darkwood Shield}{
\par This large nonmagical wooden shield is made out of darkwood. It has no enhancement bonus, but its construction material makes it lighter than a normal wooden shield. It weighs 5 pounds and has no armor check penalty.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisites: -; Market Price: 257 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Lion\rquote s Shield}{
\par This +2 large steel shield is fashioned to appear to be a roaring lion\rquote s head. Three times per day, the lion\rquote s head can be commanded to attack (independently of the shield wearer), biting with the wielder\rquote s base attack
 bonus (including multiple attacks, if the wielder has them) and dealing 2d6 points of damage (x2 critical). This attack is in addition to any actions performed by the wielder.
\par Caster Level: 10th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, summon nature\rquote s ally IV; Market Price: 9,170 gp; Cost to Create: 4,670 gp + 360 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Mithral Large Shield}{
\par This very light large shield is made of mithral. It has a 5% arcane spell failure chance and no armor check penalty. It weighs 5 pounds.
\par Caster Level: -; Prerequisite: -; Market Price: 1,020 gp.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Spined Shield}{
\par This +1 large steel shield is covered in spines. It acts as a normal spiked shield. On command up to three times per day, the shield\rquote s wearer can fire one of the shield\rquote s spines. A fired spine has a +1 enhancemen
t bonus, a range increment of 120 feet, and deals 1d10 points of damage (19-20/x2 critical). Fired spines regenerate each day.
\par Caster Level: 6th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, magic missile; Market Price: 2,670 gp; Cost to Create: 1,420 gp + 100 XP.
\par }{\cs16\i 
\par Winged Shield}{
\par This round, large wooden shield has a +3 enhancement bonus.  Once per day it can be commanded to fly (as the spell), carrying the wielder. The shield can fly up to 2 hours and carry 400 pounds while doing so.
\par Caster Level: 5th; Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, fly; Market Price: 15,159 gp; Cost to Create: 7,659 gp + 600 XP.
\par }}