{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f29\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f114\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f115\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f117\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f119\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f120\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f121\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f340\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f338\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f339\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f341\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}
{\f342\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f343\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f344\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f345\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f28\hich\af28\dbch\af28\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext18 HTML Preformatted;}{\*\cs19 \additive \i \sbasedon10 Emphasis;}}{\info{\title Creating magic Items}{\subject SRD}{\author AKSmith}{\operator AKSmith}{\creatim\yr2002\mo8\dy15\hr17\min1}{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy12\hr15\min14}{\version22}
{\edmins41}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords3381}{\nofchars19272}{\*\company Wizards of the Coast}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8283}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
\par }{\ul 
\par }{MAGIC ITEMS (CREATING MAGIC ITEMS)
\par }{\dbch\af28 
\par }{\ul CREATING MAGIC ITEMS}{
\par A creator can create an item at a lower caster level than his or her own, but never lower than the minimum level needed to cast the needed spell. Using metamagic feats, a caster can place spells in items at a higher level than normal.
\par Base creation costs for items are always half of the base price in gp and 1/25 of the base price in XP. For most items, the market price equals the base price.
\par Some items, however, cast or replicate spells 
with costly material components or with XP components. For these items, the market price equals the base price plus an extra price for the components. (Each XP in the components adds 5 gp to the market price.) The cost to create these items is the base ra
w material cost and the base XP cost (both determined by the base price) plus the costs for the components.
\par The creator also needs a fairly quiet, comfortable, and well-lit place in which to work. Any place suitable for preparing spells is suitable for making items. Creating an item requires one day per 1,000 gp in the item\rquote 
s base price, with a minimum of at least one day. Potions are an exception to this rule; they always take just one day to brew. The caster is assumed to work for 8 hours each day. The cha
racter cannot rush the process by working longer. A character can only work on one item at a time. The character can do nothing else while working. During rest periods, the character can engage in light activity such as talking or walking but cannot fight
,
 cast spells, use magic items, conduct research, or perform any other physically or mentally demanding task. The caster can take a short break from working (for naps and the like) as often as he or she likes, so long as the character spends at least 8 hou
r
s out of every 24 working on the item. The character cannot take a day off: Once the process has started, the character must see it through to the end or admit defeat. If the caster is disturbed while making the item, or spends less than 8 hours working i
n any period of 24 hours, the process is ruined. All materials used and XP spent are wasted.
\par Table: Calculating Magic Item Gold Piece Values
\par Effect\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Base Price
\par ------\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par Ability enhancement bonus\tab \tab Bonus squared x 1,000 gp
\par Armor enhancement bonus\tab \tab Bonus squared x 1,000 gp
\par Bonus spell\tab \tab \tab \tab Spell level squared x 1,000 gp
\par Deflection bonus\tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 2,000 gp
\par Luck bonus\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 2,500 gp
\par Natural armor bonus\tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 2,000 gp
\par Resistance bonus\tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 1,000 gp
\par Save bonus (limited)\tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 250 gp
\par Skill bonus\tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus squared x 20 gp
\par Spell resistance\tab \tab \tab 10,000 gp per point over SR 12
\par Weapon enhancement bonus\tab \tab Bonus squared x 2,000 gp
\par Spell Effect\tab \tab \tab \tab Base Price
\par ------------\tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par Single use, spell completion\tab \tab Spell level x caster level x 25 gp
\par Single use, use-activated\tab \tab Spell level x caster level x 50 gp
\par 50 charges, spell trigger\tab \tab Spell level x caster level x 750 gp
\par Command word\tab \tab \tab Spell level x caster level x 1,800 gp
\par Use-activated\tab \tab \tab \tab Spell level x caster level x 2,000 gp
\par Special\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Base Price Adjustment
\par -------\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab ---------------------
\par Charges per day\tab \tab \tab Divide by (5 charges per day)
\par No space limitation*\tab \tab \tab Multiply entire cost by 2
\par Charged (50 charges)\tab \tab \tab 1/2 unlimited use base price
\par Component\tab \tab \tab \tab Extra Cost
\par ---------\tab \tab \tab \tab ----------
\par Armor, shield, or weapon\tab \tab Add cost of masterwork item
\par Spell has material component \tab Add directly into price of item
\par Spell has XP cost\tab \tab \tab Add 5 gp per 1 XP per charge**
\par Spell Level: A 0-level spell is half the value of a 1st-level spell for determining price.
\par *See Limit on Magic Items Worn. Basically, an item that does not take up one of these limited spaces costs double.
\par **If item is continuous or unlimited, not charged, determine cost as if it had 100 charges. If it has some daily limit, determine cost as if it had 50 charges.
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Masterwork Items}{
\par Masterwork items are extraordinarily well-made items. They are more expensive, but they benefit the user with improved quality. They are not magical in any way. Howev
er, only masterwork items may be enchanted to become magic armor and weapons. (Items that are not weapons or armor may or may not be masterwork items.)
\par }{\cs19\i 
\par Special Materials}{
\par In addition to magic items enchanted with spells, some substances have innate special properties. While only three such materials are presented here, other special materials may exist in a given campaign.
\par Adamantine: Found only in meteorites and the rarest of veins in magical areas, this ultrahard metal adds to the quality of a weapon or s
uit of armor based on how much of the material is used. Weapons fashioned from adamantine have a natural enhancement bonus to attack and damage. Armor fashioned from adamantine has a natural enhancement bonus to AC. These bonuses do not stack with any oth
er enhancement bonuses. Weapons and armor fashioned from adamantine are treated as masterwork items with regard to creation times, but the masterwork quality does not affect the enhancement bonus of weapons or the armor check penalty of armor.
\par Adamantine has a hardness of 20 and 40 hit points per inch of thickness.
\par Enhancement\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Market Price
\par Item\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Bonus\tab Modifier
\par -----------\tab \tab \tab \tab -----\tab ------------
\par Light armor\tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab +2,000 gp
\par Medium armor\tab \tab \tab +2\tab +5,000 gp
\par Heavy armor\tab \tab \tab \tab +3\tab +10,000 gp
\par Shield\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab +2,000 gp
\par Weapon damage 1d4 or 1d6\tab \tab +1\tab +3,000 gp
\par Weapon damage 1d8, 1d10, or 1d12\tab +2\tab +9,000 gp
\par Mithral: Mithral is a very rare silvery, glistening metal that is lighter than iron but just as hard. When worked like steel, it becomes a wonderful material from which to
 create armor and is occasionally used for other items as well. Most mithral armors are one category lighter than normal for purposes of movement and other limitations. Heavy armors are treated as medium, and medium armors are treated as light, but light 
a
rmors are still treated as light. Spell failure chances for armors and shields made from mithral are decreased by 10%, maximum Dexterity bonus is increased by 2, and armor check penalties are decreased by 3. Nonarmor or nonshield items made from mithral w
eigh half as much as the same item made from other metals. Note that items not primarily of metal are not meaningfully affected. 
\par Weapons or armors fashioned from mithral are treated as masterwork items with regard to creation times, but the masterwork quality does not affect the enhancement bonus of weapons or the armor check penalty of armor.
\par Mithral has a hardness of 15 and 30 hit points per inch of thickness.
\par Item\tab \tab Market Price Modifier
\par Light armor\tab +1,000 gp
\par Medium armor+4,000 gp
\par Heavy armor\tab +9,000 gp
\par Shield\tab \tab +1,000 gp
\par Other items\tab +500 gp/lb.
\par Darkwood: This rare magic wood is as hard as normal wood but very light. Any wooden or mostly wooden item made from darkwood is considered a masterwork item and weighs only half as much as a normal wooden item of tha
t type. Items not normally made of wood or only partially of wood either cannot be made from darkwood or do not gain any special benefit from being made of darkwood. Armor check penalties for darkwood shields are reduced by 2. To determine the price of da
rkwood items, use the original weight but add +10 gp per pound to the price of a masterwork version of that item.
\par Darkwood has a hardness of 5 and 10 hit points per inch of thickness.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING ARMOR}{
\par Armor to be enchanted must be masterwork armor, and its c
ost is added to the total enchantment cost to determine final market value. Additional costs for the materials are subsumed in the cost for creating the magic armor-half the market value presented in the tables in this chapter.
\par Creating magic armor has a special prerequisite: The creator\rquote 
s caster level must be at least three times the enhancement bonus of the armor. If an item has both an enhancement bonus and a special ability, the higher of the two caster level requirements must be met.
\par Magic armor or a magic shield must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus to have any of the abilities listed on Table: Armor Special Abilities and Table: Shield Special Abilities.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the armor, the creator must have prepare
d the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), and must provide any material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells.
\par The act of working on the armor triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the armor\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character\rquote 
s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some armor may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting.
\par Crafting magic armor requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed item.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and Armor.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING WEAPONS}{
\par Only a masterwork weapon can be enchanted to become a magic weapon, and its cost is added to the total enchantment cost to determine final market value. Additional costs for the materials are subsumed in the cost for creating the magic weapon-half the bas
e price listed on Table: Weapons, according to the weapon\rquote s total effective bonus.
\par Creating a magic weapon has a special prerequisite: The creator\rquote s caster level must be at least three times the enhancement bonus of the weapon.
\par A magic weapon must have at least a +1 enhancement bonus to have any of the abilities listed on Table: Weapon Special Abilities.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the weapon, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the cas
e of a sorcerer or bard), and must provide any material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells.  The act of working on the weapon triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during
 each day of the weapon\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par At the time of creation, the creator must decide if the weapon glows or not as a side-effect of the magic imbued within it. This decision does not affect the price or the creation time, but once the item is finished, the decision is binding.
\par Creating magic double-headed weapons is treated as creating two weapons when determining cost, time, XP, and special abilities. 
\par Creating some weapons may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting.
\par Crafting a magic weapon requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed weapon.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Magic Arms and Armor.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING POTIONS}{
\par The costs for materials and ingredients are subsumed in the cost for brewing the potion - 25 gp per level of the spell times the level of the caster. All ingredients and materials used to brew a potion must be fresh and unused. The character mu
st pay the full cost for brewing each potion.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be placed in the potion (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material components or focuses the spell requires. If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote 
s XP total, the caster pays the XP cost upon beginning the brew in addition to the XP cost for making the potion itself. Material components are consumed when the character begins working, but focuses are not. (A focus us
ed in brewing a potion can be reused.) The act of brewing triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting until the character has rested and regained spells. (That is, that spell slot is expended from the character\rquote 
s currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
\par Brewing the potion requires one day.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Brew Potion.
\par Table: Potion Base Prices (By Brewer\rquote s Class)
\par Spell Level\tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----------\tab -------------\tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab -
\par 1\tab \tab 50 gp\tab \tab 50 gp\tab \tab 100 gp\tab \tab 100 gp
\par 2\tab \tab 300 gp\tab \tab 400 gp\tab \tab 400 gp\tab \tab 400 gp
\par 3\tab \tab 750 gp\tab \tab 900 gp\tab \tab 1,050 gp\tab 750 gp
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Prices assume that the potion was made at the minimum caster level.
\par Table: Base Cost to Brew a Potion (By Brewer\rquote s Class)
\par Spell
\par Level\tab \tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----\tab \tab -------------\tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab \tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab -
\par \tab \tab +1 XP\tab \tab +1 XP\tab \tab +1 XP
\par 1\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab 50 gp\tab \tab 50 gp
\par \tab \tab +2 XP\tab \tab +2 XP\tab \tab +4 XP\tab \tab +4 XP
\par 2\tab \tab 150 gp\tab \tab 200 gp\tab \tab 200 gp\tab \tab 200 gp
\par \tab \tab +12 XP\tab +16 XP\tab +16 XP\tab +16 XP
\par 3\tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab 450 gp\tab \tab 525 gp\tab \tab 375 gp
\par \tab \tab +30 XP\tab +36 XP\tab +42 XP\tab +30 XP
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Costs assume that the creator makes the potion at the minimum caster level.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING RINGS}{
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the ring. Creating a ring costs half the market value listed.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the ring, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of
 a sorcerer or bard), and must provide any material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells.  The act of working on the ring triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each 
day of the ring\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some rings may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting.
\par Forging a ring requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed ring.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Forge Ring.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING SCROLLS}{
\par The character needs a supply of choice writing materials, the cost of which is subsumed in the cost for scribing the scroll - 12.5 gp per le
vel of the spell times the level of the caster. All writing implements and materials used to scribe a scroll must be fresh and unused. The character must pay the full cost for scribing each spell scroll.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be scribed (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material components or focuses the spell requires. If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote 
s XP total, the character pays the cost upon beginning the scroll in additio
n to the XP cost for making the scroll itself. Likewise, material components are consumed when the caster begins writing, but focuses are not. (A focus used in scribing a scroll can be reused.) The act of writing triggers the prepared spell, making it una
vailable for casting until the character has rested and regained spells. (That is, that spell slot is expended from the character\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
\par Scribing a scroll requires one day per each 1,000 gp value of the completed scroll.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Scribe Scroll.
\par Table: Scroll Base Prices (By Scriber\rquote s Class)
\par Spell Level\tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab \tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----------\tab -------------\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab \tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab -
\par 1\tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab \tab 25 gp\tab \tab 50 gp\tab \tab 50 gp
\par 2\tab \tab 150 gp\tab \tab \tab 200 gp\tab \tab 200 gp\tab \tab 200 gp
\par 3\tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab \tab 450 gp\tab \tab 525 gp\tab \tab 375 gp
\par 4\tab \tab 700 gp\tab \tab \tab 800 gp\tab \tab 1,000 gp\tab 700 gp
\par 5\tab \tab 1,125 gp\tab \tab 1,250 gp\tab 1,625 gp\tab -
\par 6\tab \tab 1,650 gp\tab \tab 1,800 gp\tab 2,400 gp\tab -
\par 7\tab \tab 2,275 gp\tab \tab 2,450 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par 8\tab \tab 3,000 gp\tab \tab 3,200 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par 9\tab \tab 3,825 gp\tab \tab 4,050 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Prices assume that the scroll was made at the minimum caster level.
\par Table: Base Cost to Scribe a Scroll (By Scriber\rquote s Class)
\par Spell
\par Level\tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab \tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----\tab -------------\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp\tab \tab 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp\tab 6 gp 2 sp 5 cp\tab -
\par \tab +1 XP\tab \tab \tab +1 XP\tab \tab +1 XP
\par 1\tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 12 gp 5 sp\tab 25 gp\tab \tab 25 gp
\par \tab +1 XP\tab \tab \tab +1 XP\tab \tab +2 XP\tab \tab +2 XP
\par 2\tab 75 gp\tab \tab \tab 100 gp\tab \tab 100 gp\tab \tab 100 gp
\par \tab +6 XP\tab \tab \tab +8 XP\tab \tab +8 XP\tab \tab +8 XP
\par 3\tab 187 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 225 gp\tab \tab 262 gp 5 sp\tab 187 gp 5 sp
\par \tab +15 XP\tab \tab +18 XP\tab +21 XP\tab +15 XP
\par 4\tab 350 gp\tab \tab \tab 400 gp\tab \tab 500 gp\tab \tab 350 gp
\par \tab +28 XP\tab \tab +32 XP\tab +40 XP\tab +28 XP
\par 5\tab 562 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 625 gp\tab \tab 812 gp 5 sp\tab -
\par \tab +45 XP\tab \tab +50 XP\tab +65 XP
\par 6\tab 826 gp\tab \tab \tab 900 gp\tab \tab 1,200 gp\tab -
\par \tab +66 XP\tab \tab +72 XP\tab +96 XP
\par 7\tab 1,135 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 1,225 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par \tab +91 XP\tab \tab +98 XP
\par 8\tab 1,500 gp\tab \tab 1,600 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par \tab +120 XP\tab \tab +128 XP
\par 9\tab 1,912 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 2, 025 gp\tab -\tab \tab -
\par \tab +153 XP\tab \tab +162 XP
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Costs assume that the creator makes the scroll at the minimum caster level.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING RODS}{
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the rod. Creating a rod costs half the market value listed.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the rod, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know t
he spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), and must provide any material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells.  The act of working on the rod triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable 
for casting during each day of the rod\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some rods may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting.
\par Crafting a rod requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed rod.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Rod.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING STAFFS}{
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the staff - 375 gp per level of the highest-level spell t
imes the level of the caster, plus 75% of the value of the next most costly ability (281.25 gp per level of the spell times the level of the caster), plus one-half of the value of any other abilities (187.5 gp per level of the spell times the level of the
 caster). To get the final price, the results can be modified by the DM by up to 20% based on the number and types of spells placed together in the same staff. Staffs are always fully charged (50 charges) when created.
\par If desired, a spell can be placed into
 the staff at only half the normal cost, but then activating that particular spell costs 2 charges from the staff. A single function can cost no more than 2 charges. The caster level of all spells in a staff must be the same.
\par The creator must have prepared
 the spells to be stored (or must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material components or focuses the spells require. Fifty of each needed component are required (one for each charge). If casting the spells would red
uce the caster\rquote 
s XP total, the caster pays the cost (multiplied by 50) upon beginning the staff in addition to the XP cost for making the staff itself. Likewise, material components are consumed when the character begins working, but focuses are not. (A foc
us used in creating a staff can be reused.) The act of working on the staff triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the staff\rquote s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character
\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating a few staffs may entail other prerequisites beyond spellcasting.
\par Crafting a staff requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed staff.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Staff.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING WANDS}{
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the wand - 375 gp per level of the spell times the level of the caster. Wands are always fully charged (50 charges) when created.
\par The creator must have prepared the spell to be stored (o
r must know the spell, in the case of a sorcerer or bard) and must provide any material components or focuses the spell requires. Fifty of each needed component are required, one for each charge. If casting the spell would reduce the caster\rquote 
s XP total, the
 character pays the cost (multiplied by 50) upon beginning the wand in addition to the XP cost for making the wand itself. Likewise, material components are consumed when the character begins working, but focuses are not. (A focus used in creating a wand 
can be reused.) The act of working on the wand triggers the prepared spell, making it unavailable for casting during each day devoted to the wand\rquote s creation. (That is, that spell slot is expended from the character\rquote 
s currently prepared spells, just as if it had been cast.)
\par Crafting a wand requires one day per each 1,000 gp value of the completed wand.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wand.
\par Table: Wand Base Prices (By Crafter\rquote s Class)
\par Spell Level\tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----------\tab -------------\tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab -
\par 1\tab \tab 750 gp\tab \tab 750 gp\tab \tab 1,500 gp\tab 1,500 gp
\par 2\tab \tab 4,500 gp\tab 6,000 gp\tab 6,000 gp\tab 6,000 gp
\par 3\tab \tab 11,250 gp\tab 13,500 gp\tab 15,750 gp\tab 11,250 gp
\par 4\tab \tab 21,000 gp\tab 24,000 gp\tab 30,000 gp\tab 21,000 gp
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Prices assume that the wand was made at the minimum caster level.
\par Table: Base Cost to Craft a Wand (By Crafter\rquote s Class)
\par Spell
\par Level\tab Clr, Drd, Wiz\tab \tab Sor\tab \tab Brd\tab \tab Pal, Rgr*
\par -----\tab -------------\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---\tab \tab ---------
\par 0\tab 187 gp 5 sp\tab \tab 187 gp 5 sp\tab 187 gp 5 sp\tab -
\par \tab +15 XP\tab \tab +15 XP\tab +15 XP
\par 1\tab 375 gp\tab \tab \tab 375 gp\tab \tab 750 gp\tab \tab 750 gp
\par \tab +30 XP\tab \tab +30 XP\tab +60 XP\tab +60 XP
\par 2\tab 2,250 gp\tab \tab 3,000 gp\tab 3,000 gp\tab 3,000 gp
\par \tab +180 XP\tab \tab +240 XP\tab +240 XP\tab +240 XP
\par 3\tab 5,625 gp\tab \tab 6,750 gp\tab 7,875 gp\tab 5,625 gp
\par \tab +450 XP\tab \tab +540 XP\tab +630 XP\tab +450 XP
\par 4\tab 10,500 gp\tab \tab 12,000 gp\tab 15,000 gp\tab 10,500 gp
\par \tab +840 XP\tab \tab +960 XP\tab +1,200 XP\tab +840 XP
\par *Caster level is half class level.
\par Costs assume that the creator makes the wand at the minimum caster level.
\par }{\ul 
\par CREATING WONDEROUS ITEMS}{
\par The cost for the materials is subsumed in the cost for creating the item. Creating an item costs half the market value listed.
\par If spells are involved in the prerequisites for making the item, the creator must have prepared the spells to be cast (or must know the spells, in the case of a sorcerer or bard), and must provide any 
material components or focuses the spells require, and must pay any XP costs required for the spells. The act of working on the item triggers the prepared spells, making them unavailable for casting during each day of the item\rquote 
s creation. (That is, those spell slots are expended from the character\rquote s currently prepared spells, just as if they had been cast.)
\par Creating some items may entail other prerequisites beyond or other than spellcasting.
\par Crafting a wondrous item requires one day for each 1,000 gp value of the completed item.
\par Item Creation Feat Required: Craft Wondrous Item.
\par }{\ul 
\par INTELLIGENT ITEM CREATION}{
\par To create an intelligent item the, creator\rquote s caster level must be at least 15th. Ti
me and creation cost are based on the normal item creation rules, with the market price values on Table: Item Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and Capabilities treated as additions to both time, gold piece cost, and XP cost. Determine the item\rquote 
s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma randomly. The item\rquote s alignment is the same as its creator\rquote s. Determine other features randomly, following the guidelines in the relevant sections of this chapter.
\par }{\ul 
\par ADDING NEW ABILITIES}{
\par A creator can add new magical abilities to a magic item with no restrictions. The cost to do this is the same as if the item was not magical.
\par If the item is one that takes up a specific space on a character, any additional power added to that item doubles the cost.
\par }}